NEW YORK Kenneth Joseph Lenihan, a New York research
sociologist who helped refine the scientific methods used in
criminology, died May 25 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69.
Lenihan retired in 1995 as an associate professor of sociology
at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. He had joined the faculty
in 1980, after earlier stints as a researcher at Columbia
University's Bureau of Applied Social Research, the Vera Institute
of Justice in New York and the Bureau of Social Science Research in
Washington.
He brought his expertise to the study of recidivism rates among
criminal offenders. He conducted a study in Baltimore, called the
Life Project, for the U.S. Department of Labor in the early 1970s.
Lenihan was born in Queens, and graduated from Columbia's School
of General Studies in 1960. He also earned his M.A. and Ph.D. in
sociology at Columbia, the latter in 1974.
Lenihan is survived by two sons, Andrew of Miami, and William of
Manhattan; a daughter, Jean Lenihan of Seattle; four sisters,
Eileen McEwan of Houston, Moira Earhart of North Carolina, Jean
Dobson of Bay Shore, N.Y., and Sue Adams of Cape May, N.J.; and
three grandchildren.
NEW YORK When Jack Lin heard his winning bid for a newly
minted taxi medallion announced at City Hall last September, he
felt a flush of love for his adopted country.
But Lin's heavily financed $231,791 investment has been looking
a little risky since Thursday, when the commission steeply
increased insurance requirements and dropped the thresholds at
which cabbies can lose their licenses. With a requirement to set
aside another $100,000 for accident victims and even lower
suspension thresholds likely to be voted on this month, it could
get riskier still.
Of the tens of thousands of taxi and livery drivers and owners
having to deal with the commission's new safety regulations, the
5,000 owner-drivers of yellow cabs, who have neither bosses nor
workers to cushion the impact of the changes, have been hit the
hardest.
And no one is more bitter than the men and women who bought 400
new medallions at auctions in 1996 and 1997 except, perhaps, for
more recent buyers who paid even more money, up to $250,000 each
for pre-existing medallions, only to learn that prices have plunged
as much as $50,000 since the new rules were announced.
The commission says that cabbies who own their medallions are
the safest drivers because they have the most invested, both
financially and emotionally, in their business. But when they do
get into accidents, they tend to leave their victims even more
poorly compensated than the rest of the industry.
Big fleets, while they take great pains to hide their assets,
will sometimes pay fair settlements under sufficient legal
pressure. But a cabby who has mortgaged everything he has to buy a
medallion most of Lin's $30,000 down payment, for example, was
scraped up from friends and relatives, while the rest of the money
was borrowed from a lender has nothing to offer.
It costs them money, for one. The new insurance minimums $100,000 in liability coverage rather than $25,000, and $200,000 to
cover medical bills rather than $100,000 are expected to increase
owner-drivers' premiums, now typically $3,100 a year, to $6,000 or
more. The new penalty schedule, which raises fines several hundred
percent for infractions from smoking to speeding, can also cause a
driver to lose his license after only two tickets.
But it is the requirement that every medallion owner set aside
$100,000 in a bond which accident victims can collect if they get
judgments in excess of insurance coverage that worries drivers
the most.
Taxi industry leaders, who filed suit on Friday to overturn the
new rules, have asked the commission to consider alternatives to
the bond, like requiring owners to contribute to a pool of money to
compensate people with the most devastating injuries.
When asked whether independent owners whose medallions were
already mortgaged to the hilt might find it impossible to come up
with another $100,000, Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said that many of them
were financing their medallions by choice, not by necessity.
Neil Greenbaum, a lender and broker who said he financed more
than 100 of the new medallion purchases, scoffed at her assertion.
Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said that in any case, a driver who
stretched himself paper-thin to buy a medallion was not acting
responsibly.
But Greenbaum noted that the commission, in promoting the
medallion auction, held seminars for bankers to encourage them to
lend money to medallion buyers.
Until he surged to the lead on the turn for home at Hollywood
Park and held off Deputy Commander by two lengths, he was the best
horse who'd never won a stakes race.
Mud Route, ridden and trained by Hall of Famers Chris McCarron
and Ron McAnally, was an early West Coast favorite for the 1997
Kentucky Derby after swift maiden and allowance victories but
shin problems sidelined him until fall. At Santa Anita this winter,
the colt twice finished second to '97 Derby winner Silver Charm.
His reputation preceded him to Arkansas, where he was favored in
the Oaklawn Handicap but ran fourth. A confidence-building victory
against cheaper horses last time out set him up for The
Californian, a $250,000 race whose 45 winners include 10 national
champions.
Mud Route ($3.80), once a speedball, stalked Worldly Ways for
most of the 1[-mile race. Deputy Commander, trying to find his
Travers- and Super Derby-winning form and carrying six pounds more
than the field, came wide and finished 2{ lengths in front of
third-place Worldly Ways.
Later Sunday, McCarron and McAnally teamed up again to win the
$150,000 Estrapade Stakes on the turf with late-running Proud
Fillie ($5.40). 
NEW YORK The media turned out in force at St. Patrick's
Cathedral on Sunday, anticipating yet another in what has lately
been a series of public pronouncements by Cardinal John O'Connor on
issues like Little League play on Sundays and domestic partnership
legislation. Perhaps he would weigh in on Terrence McNally's
controversial new play, or comment on some other pressing social
issue.
The cardinal, however, stayed focused on Sunday's confirmation
Mass for 25 Catholics with severe disabilities although he did
manage to find a few opportunities to tweak the assembled
reporters.
No precautions were taken on Sunday morning beyond the several
police officers who are always on hand for Sunday Masses at St.
Patrick's. The cardinal, a former Navy chaplain, was unfazed by the
threat, said his spokesman, Joseph Zwilling.
BAY HEAD, N.J. Residents of this wealthy seaside community
reacted Sunday with a mix of sympathy and flippancy as they learned
that 22 Chinese immigrants landed here on Saturday night.
By early Sunday afternoon, after the Oops II had been towed from
the beach, residents and tourists who stayed behind were doing
their best to come up with a good rumor to explain its arrival.
SLOATSBURG, N.Y. The law people cite most often in this
village these days is the one that says precisely what kind of
housing is allowed: single-family houses on lots of 40,000 square
feet, single-family houses on 30,000 square feet, single-family
houses on 15,000 square feet and single-family houses on 10,000
square feet. Period.
They are trying to derail a plan by Mayor Samuel Abate to bring
the first multifamily housing to a village filled with people who
came here to get away from the very idea.
Sloatsburgers are willing to have change and growth to a
point, said Becky Kern, a leader of the Little Town Forum for the
Historic Preservation of Sloatsburg, a group formed to resist
Abate.
This view puts Mrs. Kern and her allies squarely in the
mainstream of a national reaction against high-density row house
developments like the one K. Hovnanian Enterprises, the biggest
town house developer in the country, hopes to build in Sloatsburg.
It is an opposition that seems a far cry from an early
acceptance of suburban town houses, when they first began appearing
in large numbers in the 1970s, as sensible, affordable and because they reduced sprawl environmentally friendly starter
homes for young couples, or as step-down homes for empty-nesters.
But as the number of town houses has increased, complaints have
grown that town houses clog roads, send more children into local
schools than had been promised, depress the value of single-family
houses and too frequently become rental units.
Consider: The Supervisors of Prince William County, Md.,
concerned about rapid growth, approved a zoning plan this spring
that reduces the number of future town houses that may be built by
10,000 units, or 40 percent. It did so by creating a zone excluding
town houses in the county's western reaches. Prince George's County
has already passed a law banning town houses in certain areas where
schools are overcrowded.
Two years ago, Brian Sheerin won a seat on the town board in the
suburban Pittsburgh town of Ben Avon on the strength of a
last-minute write-in vote from neighbors opposed to a small,
15-unit town house project on Dickson Avenue.
And in an early example that could have come from nearly
anywhere, the City Council of San Leandro, Calif., rejected a
36-unit row-house project in the northern part of town in 1992
despite a consensus from environmentalists that by filling vacant
space in a built-up area, the project was environmentally sensible.
At one site, K. Hovnanian Enterprises has already filed plans
for a 340-unit town house project on a tract that had been
intended for 66 single-family houses and it is holding out a
sweetener to the town: a sewage treatment plant that would handle
both the new housing and most of the Route 17 business district.
And after 18 years in office, Abate has learned how to make
things go his way. Over fierce opposition, he merged the police
forces of his village and the town of Ramapo and sold the village's
water supply system to a private water company. When asked what
would happen to Sloatsburg if he failed to get his way on the
floating zone, Abate was polite but firm.
Sloatsburg's single-family homes are cradled along the Route 17
corridor just north of the New Jersey line in Rockland County, and
in little valleys and hillsides in the Ramapo Mountains, which form
the village's western wall. A fair number of young families have
moved there from New Jersey and Westchester to find inexpensive
homes, average price still only $148,000, in an atmosphere that has
more of Vermont than a downstate New York commuter town, barely an
hour from Manhattan on the Short Line bus.
But while its residential areas are fetchingly rustic,
Sloatsburg's main street, along Highway 17, is a gap-toothed
stretch of gas stations and shops, without a distinct downtown and
lacking any of the Main Street charm other rural towns have striven
to achieve. Opponents of the town house project say mass
development would only add to the downscale look of their town's
business stretch. 
Mrs. Kern and her husband, Greg, bought their old, gabled
Victorian fixer-upper seven years ago and now have two little
girls. Their home on Eagle Valley Road stands almost across from
where the entrance to a potential floating zone development could
descend.
At a packed public meeting on May 18, about 400 residents broke
the maximum occupancy rules at the Senior Citizens Center to
upbraid Abate and the three-member town board (one had resigned,
reportedly because of the pressure of the zoning issue).
One speaker supported the change: Frank Dailey, a developer who
had been frustrated by the town before. Every other speaker was
opposed: Harrison Bush worried about sewer costs, Dan Simone said
the local schools would be destroyed, Rich Gurasser said young
people would be squeezed out of town and across the line into
Orange County, and Pat Kleese worried about the fate of the bear
that occasionally forages for garbage at the end of her road if the
Hovnanian project were built up to her lot.
And there was a more subtle note of concern, a note about what
kind of people might come, expressed by a speaker who asked whether
or not social service agencies would be allowed to rent any of the
new row houses for their clients.
Troy Osborne, 28, a fifth-generation Sloatsburger, rents a home
for himself and his wife from a friend in the Flats, in the old
downtown section, while he builds his truck repair business. But he
rejected bate's contention that young families like his need new
housing.
PORT CHESTER, N.Y. Compared with small boxing events in other
parts of the country, the fights held here in April at the Capitol
Theater looked like a police officers' convention. Clumps of men in
sport coats with badges and New York State Athletic Commission
emblems guarded the dressing-room doors. Corner inspectors in
surgical gloves leaned over the ropes to monitor the fighters and
their trainers between rounds, and were rotated at the bell, with a
new inspection team for each bout.
That level of regulatory presence would be unthinkable in many
states. But whether it is zealous, invaluable attention to fighter
safety or wasteful extravagance is a question central to the debate
about what New York taxpayers get for their money in boxing
regulation.
Over the years, the state athletic commission has been
criticized as a political patronage operation. Some boxing experts
have recently questioned the credentials of the commission's
doctors.
Still, when compared with other states, New York clearly
requires more medical screening of fighters and operates with a
budget that dwarfs those elsewhere.
The commission's budget, which was seriously cut during the
economic recession in New York in the early 1990s, has ballooned
since, despite no growth in the number of events. In 1992, for
example, the commission spent $494,800 to regulate 31 boxing shows.
Last year it spent $841,000 to oversee 30.
A spokesman for the commission, Scott Trent, said most of the
spending increases were due to staff salaries being restored to
their former levels. But spending on supplies, materials, medical
testing, travel and equipment purchases grew as well, according to
commission budget documents.
Most noticeably, the question of just how serious an operation
the commission is was underscored with the appointment of Floyd
Patterson as chairman in 1995. The two-time heavyweight world
champion, who is 63, has memory problems. He resigned in March, but
had long been regarded within the sport as a $76,000-a-year
figurehead.
New York places more demands on fighters and promoters than most
states do, in both medical tests and fees. The state requires each
fighter to get a CAT brain scan, as well as an electrocardiogram
and an EKG once a year. It also collects a 5.5 percent tax on
tickets and a .55 percent tax on television rights. And boxers
generally have to be in the state for several days before their
fights.
But even promoters who have been critical of New York say that
putting the state in a national context is crucial.
NEW YORK As refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia began trickling
into the Bronx about 15 years ago, their minds and bodies scarred
by war, Montefiore Medical Center, a private hospital with a long
history of serving immigrant and indigent New Yorkers, established
a clinic to serve them.
The federally subsidized clinic in East Fordham employed
full-time interpreters speaking Vietnamese and Khmer, the Cambodian
language. The interpreters scheduled the refugees' appointments,
helped them communicate with doctors and stood by them through Pap
smears, X-rays, MRIs and other unfamiliar rituals of Western
medicine.
But in April, because of financial pressures, the hospital
reassigned its two full-time interpreters to clerical jobs. It now
relies on eight employees fluent in Khmer or Vietnamese who work in
other jobs at the clinic from filing medical records to serving
as medical assistants to translate as needed.
The change has unleashed a flurry of protest by advocacy groups
and prompted an investigation by federal civil rights officials
into whether refugee patients are being denied ready access to
interpreters something Montefiore must provide as a condition of
receiving federal aid.
Larry Velez, a spokesman for the office of civil rights at the
federal Department of Health and Human Services, said his office's
inquiry, which began after clinic staff members and patients filed
a complaint, was the first in recent memory examining the civil
rights of non-English-speaking patients at a New York City
hospital.
The investigation at Montefiore, which has long been considered
a leader in caring for immigrant New Yorkers, is being watched
closely by other health care providers and by immigrants'
advocates, who hope to use it as leverage to bolster their demands
that hospitals and clinics improve their interpreting services.
Most of the city's hospitals and clinics rely on a patchwork of
bilingual staff members, volunteers and, at times, the children of
patients to do translation, said Francesca Gany, executive director
of the New York Immigrant Task Force on Health. This ad hoc system
frequently breaks down, she said, sowing confusion and making the
diagnosis and treatment of immigrants' health problems much more
difficult.
Over the last several years, civil rights inquiries around the
country have prompted changes in the way health care providers
offer translation for patients. In Colorado, the state social
services agency was cited for allowing the friends and family
members of patients to translate during psychiatric evaluations.
One patient, El Hong, 48, said that when he stumbled into the
clinic recently with severe diarrhea and stomach pain, he waited
seven hours until a translator could be found and he could be seen
by a physician. Hong later recalled the event, speaking through a
translator. He shook his head and said he did not know how he would
cope without the guidance of Ni Yann, a former translator who has
been reassigned as a medical records clerk.
But the guidelines do not require all institutions to employ
full-time interpreters. They can rely instead on bilingual staff
members or a pool of qualified volunteers or they can contract with
outside interpreters. Montefiore officials said that at its two
Bronx hospitals, a bank of volunteer interpreters and bilingual
staff members, who represent 44 languages, provide translation as
needed.
Several staff members at the clinic on 193rd Street said the
reassignments were inefficient, forcing them to scramble to find
bilingual employees who may be busy tending to other tasks and
forcing their patients to wait.
On Dr. Zach Rosen's shift a couple of weeks ago, for instance,
an elderly Cambodian woman with a history of hypertension came into
his office for a scheduled visit; neither spoke the other's
language. So, while the patient waited, Rosen said he ran around
looking for a medical assistant on the floor who spoke Khmer. She,
as it turned out, was busy translating for another physician down
the hall.
Some staff members also said the full-time interpreters were
crucial in offering a sense of safety to refugees still traumatized
by war and dislocation.
A nurse practitioner, Nancy Tenney, said an elderly Cambodian
woman who had recently been assaulted came in complaining of
numbness in her arm. Ms. Tenney suggested an MRI, but when the
patient was told that Ms. Yann would be unable to accompany her,
she refused the test.
BOSTON Raging winds, hail, and blinding thunderstorms pummeled
much of Massachusetts Sunday night, killing two people in a pickup
truck in Winchendon, Mass., cutting power lines, toppling tree
limbs, and threatening tornadoes for much of the night.
With tornado watches in effect throughout the region at least
until early Monday, Doppler radar showed a twister may have touched
down in Worcester County Sunday night, the National Weather Service
reported.
Earlier, a funnel cloud was spotted in Pittsfield, according to
Weather Services Corp. in Lexington, but there were no reports that
it had touched down.
The storm swept eastward from New York state, but spared New
England much of the devastation it had wrought there. Trees blew
through homes and houses were leveled in Mechanicville, N.Y., north
of Albany, authorities reported.
But the storm was furious in its wrath here as well:
Golf-ball-sized hail tumbled from the sky above Walpole, N.H.,
leaving cars dented, said Marc Bennett, a Weather Services Corp.
meteorologist.
In Lawrence, Mass., almost two-tenths of an inch of rain fell in
seven minutes a phenomenal amount of water, Bennett said. And
Worcester Airport recorded a 94 m.p.h. wind gust after 10 p.m.,
said Doug Cope, information officer for Massachusetts Emergency
Management Agency.
In Winchendon, near the New Hampshire state line, two men
driving a pickup truck along Route 202 were killed when a pine tree
snapped and toppled onto the 1994 Toyota pickup, just after 6 p.m.
Much of the damage occurred in Franklin and Worcester counties,
where trees and power wires were downed. Greenfield reported a wind
gust of 68 m.p.h., according to Jennifer Kensy, a Weather Services
Corp. meteorologist.
At its height, Western Massachusetts Electric reported 5,287
customers without electric, mostly in Greenfield, the Pittsfield
district, and later in west Springfield. Both utilities were
working to restore power last night.
The storm, blown in from New York state after 5 p.m., first
attacked Pittsfield, then tracked more northeast, cutting a swath
of precipitation and wind across the top of the state and into
southern Vermont and New Hampshire, Bennett said.
It was part of the same system that wracked South Dakota, said
Alan Dunham, meteorologist with the National Weather Service, of
the twisters that virtually leveled the town of Spencer, S.D.,
Saturday night. The storm then raged through the midwest, killing
several people.
The torrential weather was expected to dissipate overnight.
Weather Services Corp. predicts sun and breezy conditions on
Monday, with a temperature of about 75 degrees.
Monroe Spears, a critic, teacher and poet, died on May 23 at the
Southern Tennessee Medical Center in Winchester, Tenn. He was 82
and lived in Sewanee, Tenn.
He taught at the University of Wisconsin, Vanderbilt University
in Nashville, Tenn., and the University of the South in Sewanee,
where he edited The Sewanee Review from 1952 to 1961. In 1964 he
became Moody professor of English at Rice University in Houston,
where he taught until his retirement in 1986. He was a member of
the Fellowship of Southern Writers.
Most of LCI's top executives, including its chairman and chief
executive, Brian Thompson, will remain with Qwest. Thompson will
become Qwest's vice chairman.
The two companies have received all of the federal regulatory
approvals they require to complete their merger. Shareholders of
Qwest, based in Denver, and LCI are set to vote on the deal on
Friday. If Worldcom Inc.'s $37 billion acquisition of MCI
Communications Corp. wins government approval, the combined
Qwest-LCI will become the United States' No. 4 long-distance
telephone company.
Joseph Nacchio, who left ATT Corp. after he was passed over for
that company's top job, will remain Qwest's president and chief
executive. Philip Anschutz, the Denver oil and railroad magnate who
controls Qwest, will remain the company's chairman.
Anne Bingaman, LCI's aggressive regulatory affairs chief, is the
most senior LCI executive who is not a member of the team that
Qwest plans to announce Monday. Before joining LCI last year, Ms.
Bingaman ran the Justice Department's antitrust division. Since
leaving the government she has become an outspoken foe of the Bell
local telephone companies, proposing that they each be split in
half.
After completing the LCI acquisition, Nacchio will have 12
people reporting to him. Five of the people, including Lawrence
Bouman, LCI's senior vice president for engineering, will have come
from LCI.
Besides the ex-LCI executives, almost every member of Qwest's
top management team will have come from larger companies, including
ATT, Lucent, GTE and U S West. The telecommunications industry is
one of the few sectors in which talented executives routinely
follow career paths in which they move from larger to smaller
companies.
CHICAGO The game took 2 hours 34 minutes, and for Michael
Jordan, it had to feel like 15 brutal rounds, the way it felt years
ago for the aging Muhammad Ali. Jordan once flew the way the young
Ali danced, but at 35, against Larry Bird's swarming Indiana
Pacers, in the fourth quarter of a seventh game, Jordan had nowhere
to go but the clinches.
He fought in flurries. He went to the boards. He drove the ball
into a crowd of hacking behemoths. He and his team won with heart
and guile and, like Ali until he had nothing left, because Jordan
had promised that was precisely what he would do.
As it turned out, the Bulls began their ascent over this bump
when Jordan won a jump ball from a 7-footer.
It was the middle of the fourth quarter and the Bulls were
sagging, with Jordan struggling, with their front line plagued by
fouls. They were trailing by 77-74. They were waiting for Jordan to
do something, anything, to bail them out.
Jordan drove into the lane against the long-armed Derrick McKey,
who reached in as Jordan neared the basket and stripped Jordan of
the ball. It rolled on the floor, toward Rik Smits. Jordan, falling
backward, reached around and, with Smits, got a hand on the ball.
Jordan somehow won the jump. Steve Kerr wound up with an open
3-point shot on the right wing. The score was tied. The message was
sent. Jordan was going to drag his team to Salt Lake City, to its
sixth championship series. Twenty-eight points on a night when his
jump shot wasn't falling, when every advance to the basket brought
a double-team. Eight assists on a night when, more than ever, he
had to have help. Nine rebounds on a night when the Bulls
essentially won the game with second shots. With hustle plays. With
the directive to stop the whining over every call or play that
didn't go their way.
The time had come for them to put aside the preoccupation with
their uncertain future and get in touch with the precious present.
Time to forget the insipid organizational feuds, their contractual
complaints and the overblown burden of being the Bulls. Time to
take any contribution they could get, including a 14-point
perimeter explosion by Toni Kukoc, the one-time obsession of Jerry
Krause, the general manager, whom Jackson, Jordan and Scottie
Pippen heartily despise.
A couple of weeks sooner than anyone thought was likely, the
time had come to stare down dynastic mortality, a predicament one
must inevitably confront without the spiritual aid of an agent.
Until Sunday night, with Jordan purifying their lineup the Bulls
had not even been extended to a seventh game of a playoff series
since 1992. That was when Pat Riley's New York Knicks put a
second-round choke hold on Pippen, but inevitably played Game 7 at
the old Chicago Stadium with an exceedingly motley crew that
featured a slow-footed point guard named Mark Jackson, whose push
shot often landed uglier than it took off.
The lack of a companion superpower to effect a balance of power
has created an annoying haughtiness about the Bulls, a wart that
seems to have become visible to the country during the Indiana
series. This particular Bulls championship quest has become as
emotional as a deposit into a savings account. And when the balance
sheet didn't add up, it was always the fault of the bank.
This is not to say that Jordan's Bulls haven't been pushed,
haven't flirted with the sudden-death dangers of a seventh game.
Someone in a national sports magazine commented last week that this
year's Utah Jazz might actually be determined enough to force a
truly competitive finals, forgetting that three of the Bulls' four
victories in last year's finals were undecided until the game's
final shot.
One insider said the qualifying tournament for the 2000 Olympics
probably will be in March of that year, meaning NBA players would
be unable to participate because the season would be going on.
Without NBA players, the U.S. likely would not qualify for the
Olympics.
Stern, meanwhile, issued a strong declaration to the members of
the U.S. team that, should they decide not to honor their contracts
with USA Basketball, it would hurt them more than it would hurt the
NBA.
The U.S. roster for the World Championship must be submitted
this month to FIBA, Granik said. And so far, there are no changes,
in spite of pleas from NBA players union chief Patrick Ewing that
the players boycott the tournament.
Both geographically and culturally, California has always seemed
on the extreme edge of the United States. This is where the crazy
fashions start, from oat bran to surfing shorts to New Age
crystal-gazing.
It is where a black mayor can appear in Chinese robes on a
catwalk, and his rival can be photographed naked in the shower; it
is where anything goes, morally, spiritually or gastronomically,
except the lighting up of a cigarette in a bar.
Small wonder that many Americans have often dreamed of seeing
California, like some extravagant growth, painlessly removed from
the body politic.
There, a millionaire candidate, Al Checchi, who had spent around
$40 million on his campaign (a record, even for America) was
soundly beaten in the Democratic primary for the governorship; and
another millionaire, Darrell Issa, was beaten in the Republican
primary for the Senate.
Voters had more sense than to be swayed by these men's money,
which was a poor cover for the fact that they had no political
experience and the vaguest ideological convictions. Instead, they
opted for candidates whose careers commended them.
It was not a flawless choice: Gray Davis, the relatively
impoverished victor over Checchi, now owes a lot of money to the
special interests who helped him. But the result adds a hopeful
note to the endless debate about the proper role of money in
American elections.
Checchi's appearance on the scene was not, as some feared,
pernicious: he challenged the establishment at his own expense,
which was a good thing, but then found his millions did not sway
the voters, which was just as encouraging.
Checchi's ads swamped the airwaves but did not work, suggesting
there may be a natural limit to the usefulness of spending money on
commercials (the tactic which most inflates the cost of political
campaigning in America).
Above all, California has shown that voters can usually be
trusted: in all the agonizing over campaign-finance reform, perhaps
the only vital rule is that they should know where a candidate's
money comes from.
Also on Tuesday, Californians voted to end the state's program
of bilingual education, by which non-English-speaking children are
taught in their own language for several years.
This costly program, the largest of its kind in the country, had
patently failed to reduce the dropout rate of Latino high-school
children.
Latino parents supported the proposal almost as heartily as
Anglos, and for a simple reason: in America, despite the currency
of Spanish, English is the language of advancement.
There was another, equally sensible, reason for this vote. In
recent years, California has turned against any kind of
preferential treatment for minorities. In 1996, it became the first
state to bar racial preferences in state hiring and contracting and
in admissions to state universities, a bold move that deserved more
imitators on the national scene.
The bilingual vote is an extension of this policy. California's
voters now believe that after many years of trying to assist blacks
and Latinos by applying admissions quotas or easier standards, the
proper approach is to spend more money on education at earlier
stages and across the board.
With a booming economy and a $4 billion budget surplus, there is
money at last for improving the state's lagging schools; and, with
it, the confidence to defy entrenched bodies, such as the teachers'
unions, that stand in the way of color-blind reforms.
Not everything went smoothly on election day. Californians
turned down a proposal that union members should give their
approval before their dues are spent for political purposes: a
victory for labor that will have national implications.
Turnout, at less than 40 percent, showed that relentless
campaigning-by-television has dulled the taste for taking part in
politics.
But hey, this is California; too much good sense all at once may
be hazardous to your health. (To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
Both geographically and culturally, California has always seemed
on the extreme edge of the United States. This is where the crazy
fashions start, from oat bran to surfing shorts to New Age
crystal-gazing.
It is where a black mayor can appear in Chinese robes on a
catwalk, and his rival can be photographed naked in the shower; it
is where anything goes, morally, spiritually or gastronomically,
except the lighting up of a cigarette in a bar.
Small wonder that many Americans have often dreamed of seeing
California, like some extravagant growth, painlessly removed from
the body politic.
There, a millionaire candidate, Al Checchi, who had spent around
$40 million on his campaign (a record, even for America) was
soundly beaten in the Democratic primary for the governorship; and
another millionaire, Darrell Issa, was beaten in the Republican
primary for the Senate.
Voters had more sense than to be swayed by these men's money,
which was a poor cover for the fact that they had no political
experience and the vaguest ideological convictions. Instead, they
opted for candidates whose careers commended them.
It was not a flawless choice: Gray Davis, the relatively
impoverished victor over Checchi, now owes a lot of money to the
special interests who helped him. But the result adds a hopeful
note to the endless debate about the proper role of money in
American elections.
Checchi's appearance on the scene was not, as some feared,
pernicious: he challenged the establishment at his own expense,
which was a good thing, but then found his millions did not sway
the voters, which was just as encouraging.
Checchi's ads swamped the airwaves but did not work, suggesting
there may be a natural limit to the usefulness of spending money on
commercials (the tactic which most inflates the cost of political
campaigning in America).
Above all, California has shown that voters can usually be
trusted: in all the agonizing over campaign-finance reform, perhaps
the only vital rule is that they should know where a candidate's
money comes from.
Also on Tuesday, Californians voted to end the state's program
of bilingual education, by which non-English-speaking children are
taught in their own language for several years.
This costly program, the largest of its kind in the country, had
patently failed to reduce the dropout rate of Latino high-school
children.
Latino parents supported the proposal almost as heartily as
Anglos, and for a simple reason: in America, despite the currency
of Spanish, English is the language of advancement.
There was another, equally sensible, reason for this vote. In
recent years, California has turned against any kind of
preferential treatment for minorities. In 1996, it became the first
state to bar racial preferences in state hiring and contracting and
in admissions to state universities, a bold move that deserved more
imitators on the national scene.
The bilingual vote is an extension of this policy. California's
voters now believe that after many years of trying to assist blacks
and Latinos by applying admissions quotas or easier standards, the
proper approach is to spend more money on education at earlier
stages and across the board.
With a booming economy and a $4 billion budget surplus, there is
money at last for improving the state's lagging schools; and, with
it, the confidence to defy entrenched bodies, such as the teachers'
unions, that stand in the way of color-blind reforms.
Not everything went smoothly on election day. Californians
turned down a proposal that union members should give their
approval before their dues are spent for political purposes: a
victory for labor that will have national implications.
Turnout, at less than 40 percent, showed that relentless
campaigning-by-television has dulled the taste for taking part in
politics.
But hey, this is California; too much good sense all at once may
be hazardous to your health. (To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
ELMONT, N.Y. The jockey burst into the room, minutes after his
horse, the Triple Crown aspirant, had drawn post position No. 8.
Someone at this moment handed Kent Desormeaux a cellular telephone.
His wife, Sonia, was on the line.
Hours before Holyfield faces a plow horse of a challenger at
Madison Square Garden, Desormeaux will attempt to ride Real Quiet
to racing's 12th Triple Crown in the 130th running of the Belmont
Stakes. Since no one this year heralded the horse as the second
coming of Secretariat and the field of distinguished contenders has
worn down to a whisper, Real Quiet's place in history has,
prematurely, become a clubhouse argument waiting to happen.
Can the name of a horse that won two of his first 12 races be
mentioned in the same breath as decorated Triple Crown winners such
as Affirmed? A clue, a potential affirmative, can be found in the
man visited Thursday by Kent Desormeaux.
Go back a few years. Who rated Holyfield as much more than
rugged, earnest and about as easy to hit as a heavy bag? How many
recommended that he retire before absorbing the blow that would
slur more than his speech? Two overhyped fights later against a
fading ex-con, Holyfield has negotiated, like Donald Trump, his way
into boxing lore, as its unflinching Real Deal.
Dignity. Durability. Longevity. Joe Frazier had strengths
similar to those that have served Holyfield so well, but they
weren't nearly enough to measure up to Muhammad Ali. Holyfield is
not held accountable for those who were unable to persevere and
challenge him now, like Riddick Bowe, or for those who simply do
not exist. Nor should he be. He can only compete against the
competitors and conditions that confront him.
Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, hobbled on crutches out of
his barn early Thursday to praise the horse that has won two of
three. Walden broke his right foot playing pickup basketball last
week with Julie Krone's husband at Monmouth Park. He has seven
screws and a plate in his foot. Mishaps happen, to horses and their
trainers. Walden is working, anyway. Victory Gallop was second
(barely) in the Kentucky Derby, second (distantly) in the
Preakness. There is one more chance to deny Real Quiet his prize.
If Bob Baffert's horse wins again, then Walden said there should be
no denying Real Quiet his rightful Triple Crown fame.
With people, we tend to chalk this process up as delayed
development: athletes who mature, like wine. Come to think of it,
Michael Jordan was hardly in such rarified air as a college player
at North Carolina. Scottie Pippen, John Stockton and Karl Malone
were fleeting thoughts in Dick Vitale's brain.
Sometimes, of course, great things are achieved by athletes who
are just very good. David Wells pitched a perfect game. Roger Maris
hit 61 home runs. He isn't in the Hall of Fame but it is his
162-game pace that has been the standard now for 37 years. Bottom
line: that's about as real as any deal gets.
Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps the most incompetent nationalist in
modern history, continues to hack away at what is left of
Yugoslavia.
On May 31 voters in tiny Montenegro, which, with Serbia, is all
that is left of the Yugoslav federation, strongly backed their
reformist president, who no longer recognizes the authority of
Yugoslavia's government. The next step may be a referendum on
independence.
Meanwhile, Milosevic is stepping up his war on separatists in
Kosovo, Serbia's Albanian-speaking province. Over 200 people have
been killed this year, perhaps 40 this week. Refugees are streaming
out of Kosovo. Young Albanians eager to join up with the separatist
Kosovo Liberation Army are streaming in.
This is harrowingly familiar. Seven years ago Milosevic's
attempt to enlarge Serbia's share of Yugoslavia which then
included Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia cost at least
100,000 lives.
Familiar, too, is the dilemma faced by western leaders: should
they watch the bloodshed, as they did for too long in Bosnia, or
risk compatriots' lives and their own political careers by getting
involved in somebody else's war, as America did in Vietnam?
Muscular diplomacy, they had hoped, would save them. The Contact
Group America, Russia and the four big West European countries punished Milosevic's aggression in Kosovo with sanctions. Even as
he continued to pound the Albanians, he agreed to talk to their
leader; sanctions were eased. But the West now admits it will have
to do more.
The separatists use both countries (and Montenegro) as havens
and as conduits for arms. Milosevic's forces might well be tempted
to chase them across borders, setting off a wider war.
Last week foreign ministers from NATO's 16 members decided to
upgrade a military exercise in Macedonia and launch one in Albania.
The goal is sensible: to warn off Serbia and bolster the stability
of two governments that have so far steered clear of Kosovo's war.
Yet even these modest reassurances pull NATO into dangerous
territory. Two countries that serve as bases for attacks on
Yugoslavia, albeit not deliberately, now have an implicit security
guarantee. To protect them, NATO may have to go beyond the
hand-holding measures it has planned so far.
Nor, lastly, should NATO police Albania's chaotic northeast,
where an outlaw mini-state run by adherents of the ex-president,
Sali Berisha, terrorizes the locals and succors Kosovo's
guerrillas.
A NATO operation should have one mission: to deter organized
aggression and, if necessary, repel it by force.
NATO's strategists suggest 23,000 troops would be needed along
the 140-kilometer (90-mile) border between Kosovo and Albania. That
is too many, especially if the force is not to be expected to
intercept arms and guerrillas. NATO needs only enough troops to
back up its deterrent role: it can watch borders from the air and
send extra troops in case of attack.
Even if this were to succeed, NATO would have other worries.
Albanians are not angels. While Serb police mop up separatist
settlements, the Kosovo Liberation Army has driven some Kosovo
Serbs out of their villages; in a province that is nine-tenths
Albanian, the guerrillas look the likelier ethnic cleansers.
If NATO guards the borders behind which they hide, the Serbs
will accuse it of sheltering terrorists. Western governments, which
have used that term to describe Kosovo's guerrillas, will be forced
to agree. That would be bad. But inaction would be worse.
Whatever NATO does, things can always get nastier in the
Balkans. If Serbia's crackdown became wholesale slaughter, it would
have to consider direct intervention in Kosovo. And the West would
face some more hard choices if Montenegro opted for independence
and Milosevic chose to send in his army.
NATO's next Balkan operation may not be its last. (To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps the most incompetent nationalist in
modern history, continues to hack away at what is left of
Yugoslavia.
On May 31 voters in tiny Montenegro, which, with Serbia, is all
that is left of the Yugoslav federation, strongly backed their
reformist president, who no longer recognizes the authority of
Yugoslavia's government. The next step may be a referendum on
independence.
Meanwhile, Milosevic is stepping up his war on separatists in
Kosovo, Serbia's Albanian-speaking province. Over 200 people have
been killed this year, perhaps 40 this week. Refugees are streaming
out of Kosovo. Young Albanians eager to join up with the separatist
Kosovo Liberation Army are streaming in.
This is harrowingly familiar. Seven years ago Milosevic's
attempt to enlarge Serbia's share of Yugoslavia which then
included Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia cost at least
100,000 lives.
Familiar, too, is the dilemma faced by western leaders: should
they watch the bloodshed, as they did for too long in Bosnia, or
risk compatriots' lives and their own political careers by getting
involved in somebody else's war, as America did in Vietnam?
Muscular diplomacy, they had hoped, would save them. The Contact
Group America, Russia and the four big West European countries punished Milosevic's aggression in Kosovo with sanctions. Even as
he continued to pound the Albanians, he agreed to talk to their
leader; sanctions were eased. But the West now admits it will have
to do more.
The separatists use both countries (and Montenegro) as havens
and as conduits for arms. Milosevic's forces might well be tempted
to chase them across borders, setting off a wider war.
Last week foreign ministers from NATO's 16 members decided to
upgrade a military exercise in Macedonia and launch one in Albania.
The goal is sensible: to warn off Serbia and bolster the stability
of two governments that have so far steered clear of Kosovo's war.
Yet even these modest reassurances pull NATO into dangerous
territory. Two countries that serve as bases for attacks on
Yugoslavia, albeit not deliberately, now have an implicit security
guarantee. To protect them, NATO may have to go beyond the
hand-holding measures it has planned so far.
Nor, lastly, should NATO police Albania's chaotic northeast,
where an outlaw mini-state run by adherents of the ex-president,
Sali Berisha, terrorizes the locals and succors Kosovo's
guerrillas.
A NATO operation should have one mission: to deter organized
aggression and, if necessary, repel it by force.
NATO's strategists suggest 23,000 troops would be needed along
the 140-kilometer (90-mile) border between Kosovo and Albania. That
is too many, especially if the force is not to be expected to
intercept arms and guerrillas. NATO needs only enough troops to
back up its deterrent role: it can watch borders from the air and
send extra troops in case of attack.
Even if this were to succeed, NATO would have other worries.
Albanians are not angels. While Serb police mop up separatist
settlements, the Kosovo Liberation Army has driven some Kosovo
Serbs out of their villages; in a province that is nine-tenths
Albanian, the guerrillas look the likelier ethnic cleansers.
If NATO guards the borders behind which they hide, the Serbs
will accuse it of sheltering terrorists. Western governments, which
have used that term to describe Kosovo's guerrillas, will be forced
to agree. That would be bad. But inaction would be worse.
Whatever NATO does, things can always get nastier in the
Balkans. If Serbia's crackdown became wholesale slaughter, it would
have to consider direct intervention in Kosovo. And the West would
face some more hard choices if Montenegro opted for independence
and Milosevic chose to send in his army.
NATO's next Balkan operation may not be its last. (To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
NEW YORK Cabbies, street vendors and jaywalkers. These may not
sound like a few of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's favorite things, but
they all wear big grins in a new picture book written and published
for the mayor.
The book, which the mayor dedicates to his mother, Helen
Giuliani, was written and illustrated by Kristin Doney, 31, a
children's-book illustrator who lives in Greenwich Village.
The book was published by New York City Public/Private
Initiatives Inc., a private group headed by Tamra Roberts Lhota,
the wife of the mayor's budget director, Joseph Lhota. The book was
made possible in part by a $25,000 grant from Goldman, Sachs Co.
The mayor's office said copies would be donated to all elementary
school libraries and all branches of the New York Public Library.
The mayor said 10,000 copies were in print, but he expected at
least twice as many to be distributed ultimately.
NEW YORK Four teen-age boys who are accused of sending lewd
notes threatening violence against certain teachers and students at
a Brooklyn high school earlier this week have been arrested, school
and police officials said Thursday.
The four boys, all juniors at Canarsie High School, were charged
with aggravated harassment, a misdemeanor, and issued desk
appearance tickets. Three of the boys, arrested late Wednesday
night, were identified as Weygand Gardner, Jesse Prendess and
Lonnie McNeill, all 17. A fourth boy, Adrian Mair, 16, was arrested
Thursday. The police are looking for two other suspects, who are
also students at the school.
Canarsie High was closed Thursday in observation of
Brooklyn-Queens Day. When classes resume Friday, the boys accused
of making the threats will likely be suspended for a maximum of 30
days, a Board of Education spokesman, J.D. LaRock, said.
School safety officers and the police interviewed those named in
the notes and scoured the school building, which was already
equipped with metal detectors, for weapons. Two of the three notes
were sent from America Online accounts; LaRock said it was not
clear whether the third was e-mail or just a note written on a
computer. None appeared to have been generated on a school
computer, he added.
CHICAGO Education has always been a local issue in America.
Now an increasing number of parents are choosing to make it even
more local: they are doing it themselves.
Home-schooling groups put the number of students learning at
home at 1.23 million, or slightly more than all the public-school
students in New Jersey. Such numbers are notoriously imprecise,
since some of the most populous states, such as Texas and Illinois,
collect no meaningful data on home schooling.
Still, experts reckon that the number of families teaching their
children at home has exploded over the past decade and is growing
by at least 15 percent a year.
Why? Twenty years ago home schooling was a hippie habit, the
natural complement to free love and natural healing. But the flower
children soon had strange bedfellows.
In the mid-1980s, home schooling was embraced by Christian
fundamentalists as a means of providing family-based religious and
moral education.
Recently, there has been a boom in secular home schoolers who
are dissatisfied with public schools.
The Florida Department of Education has for years sent a crude
survey to home schoolers asking them why they withdrew from the
regular system. Two years ago, for the first time, dissatisfaction
with the public schools was a more common answer than religious
preference.
According to Mary Anne Pitman, an educational anthropologist at
the University of Cincinnati, one fast-growing group of home
schoolers is black professionals, worried by the lack of safe,
effective public schools for their children.
Two decades ago, home schooling was illegal in many states and
strongly discouraged in most others. Students were hunted down as
truants; parents were arrested and sometimes even jailed.
In Minnesota, home schoolers must register, check in regularly,
and take part in standardized exams to make sure the children are
not falling behind. In Illinois, they are virtually unregulated.
Some states have become downright accommodating. Washington and
Iowa require the public schools to enroll children on a part-time
basis if they ask for it.
In California, children can enroll in an independent study
program through a public school and then do their studying at home.
Not surprisingly, the busiest opponents of all this are school
administrators, particularly superintendents. They can be expected
to have a belief in public schools, of course, but not all their
concerns are so well-intentioned.
Yet the legal climate has changed, in large part, because home
schoolers have developed into a potent political and legal force.
Their association with the Christian right has earned them strong
Republican backing.
They are also very good at bare-knuckle, grass-roots politics.
The HSLDA has a staff of 50, including seven lawyers, who lobby on
Capitol Hill but also pick fights at the state level.
When a Michigan couple was arrested in 1985 for teaching their
child at home without a teacher's license, the HSLDA fought the
case all the way to the Michigan Supreme Court, where the law
requiring home-schooling parents to be licensed teachers was struck
down as unconstitutional.
Farris boasts that he can generate 100 telephone calls to every
congressional office within a matter of hours.
At the same time, public opinion on home schooling has shifted.
When the Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll on public attitudes towards
education first asked about home schooling in 1985, 73 percent of
those surveyed said it was a bad thing, compared with 16 percent
who approved.
When the same question was asked in 1997, the objectors had
fallen to 57 percent and the supporters had more than doubled, to
36 percent.
But what happens to the children? The HSLDA claims that, on
average, home-schooled students outperform their public-school
peers by more than 30 percentage points in all subjects, and that
the longer a child is schooled at home the larger the test gap
grows.
The figures may be tilted, and home-schooled students, whose
parents are an exacting bunch, would probably do well in public
schools too. Still, home schooling is not creating a generation of
dullards.
Illingworth has challenged the movement to find a better name,
since many of its most successful students have taken some courses
in public schools and even in community colleges. The picture of a
mother working with her children around the kitchen table does not
do justice to the idea, he says.
And there is a harder question: is it possible to develop
socially without ever going to school?
Farris decided to begin educating his six-year-old daughter at
home when he realized that she cared more about the approval of
other six-year-olds than she did about her own family.
Harvard's Illingworth says the sociability of home-schooled
applicants varies as much as it does among ordinary ones. The
exceptions come from religious families who have deliberately
withdrawn their children from a world they consider tainted.
One shadow lies over home schooling. Joe Nathan, a senior fellow
at the Hubert Humphrey Institute at the University of Minnesota,
has spent much time interviewing parents who teach at home.
In general, he considers home schooling to be a good thing for
bringing change to the public schools; many home schoolers have
already been drawn back into the system by charter schools and
other such experiments. But there is a worrying group lurking in
the home-schooling shadows.
Even so, most home-schooling parents choose to teach their
children at home at great cost to themselves because they reckon
the public schools are missing the mark; and, in many cases, they
are right.
A surge of defections may finally send a wake-up call to the
whole public system. Rather than merely talking of change, it is
time to bring some about. (To publish this fascinating 1,200-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
CHICAGO Education has always been a local issue in America.
Now an increasing number of parents are choosing to make it even
more local: they are doing it themselves.
Home-schooling groups put the number of students learning at
home at 1.23 million, or slightly more than all the public-school
students in New Jersey. Such numbers are notoriously imprecise,
since some of the most populous states, such as Texas and Illinois,
collect no meaningful data on home schooling.
Still, experts reckon that the number of families teaching their
children at home has exploded over the past decade and is growing
by at least 15 percent a year.
Why? Twenty years ago home schooling was a hippie habit, the
natural complement to free love and natural healing. But the flower
children soon had strange bedfellows.
In the mid-1980s, home schooling was embraced by Christian
fundamentalists as a means of providing family-based religious and
moral education.
Recently, there has been a boom in secular home schoolers who
are dissatisfied with public schools.
The Florida Department of Education has for years sent a crude
survey to home schoolers asking them why they withdrew from the
regular system. Two years ago, for the first time, dissatisfaction
with the public schools was a more common answer than religious
preference.
According to Mary Anne Pitman, an educational anthropologist at
the University of Cincinnati, one fast-growing group of home
schoolers is black professionals, worried by the lack of safe,
effective public schools for their children.
Two decades ago, home schooling was illegal in many states and
strongly discouraged in most others. Students were hunted down as
truants; parents were arrested and sometimes even jailed.
In Minnesota, home schoolers must register, check in regularly,
and take part in standardized exams to make sure the children are
not falling behind. In Illinois, they are virtually unregulated.
Some states have become downright accommodating. Washington and
Iowa require the public schools to enroll children on a part-time
basis if they ask for it.
In California, children can enroll in an independent study
program through a public school and then do their studying at home.
Not surprisingly, the busiest opponents of all this are school
administrators, particularly superintendents. They can be expected
to have a belief in public schools, of course, but not all their
concerns are so well-intentioned.
Yet the legal climate has changed, in large part, because home
schoolers have developed into a potent political and legal force.
Their association with the Christian right has earned them strong
Republican backing.
They are also very good at bare-knuckle, grass-roots politics.
The HSLDA has a staff of 50, including seven lawyers, who lobby on
Capitol Hill but also pick fights at the state level.
When a Michigan couple was arrested in 1985 for teaching their
child at home without a teacher's license, the HSLDA fought the
case all the way to the Michigan Supreme Court, where the law
requiring home-schooling parents to be licensed teachers was struck
down as unconstitutional.
Farris boasts that he can generate 100 telephone calls to every
congressional office within a matter of hours.
At the same time, public opinion on home schooling has shifted.
When the Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll on public attitudes towards
education first asked about home schooling in 1985, 73 percent of
those surveyed said it was a bad thing, compared with 16 percent
who approved.
When the same question was asked in 1997, the objectors had
fallen to 57 percent and the supporters had more than doubled, to
36 percent.
But what happens to the children? The HSLDA claims that, on
average, home-schooled students outperform their public-school
peers by more than 30 percentage points in all subjects, and that
the longer a child is schooled at home the larger the test gap
grows.
The figures may be tilted, and home-schooled students, whose
parents are an exacting bunch, would probably do well in public
schools too. Still, home schooling is not creating a generation of
dullards.
Illingworth has challenged the movement to find a better name,
since many of its most successful students have taken some courses
in public schools and even in community colleges. The picture of a
mother working with her children around the kitchen table does not
do justice to the idea, he says.
And there is a harder question: is it possible to develop
socially without ever going to school?
Farris decided to begin educating his six-year-old daughter at
home when he realized that she cared more about the approval of
other six-year-olds than she did about her own family.
Harvard's Illingworth says the sociability of home-schooled
applicants varies as much as it does among ordinary ones. The
exceptions come from religious families who have deliberately
withdrawn their children from a world they consider tainted.
One shadow lies over home schooling. Joe Nathan, a senior fellow
at the Hubert Humphrey Institute at the University of Minnesota,
has spent much time interviewing parents who teach at home.
In general, he considers home schooling to be a good thing for
bringing change to the public schools; many home schoolers have
already been drawn back into the system by charter schools and
other such experiments. But there is a worrying group lurking in
the home-schooling shadows.
Even so, most home-schooling parents choose to teach their
children at home at great cost to themselves because they reckon
the public schools are missing the mark; and, in many cases, they
are right.
A surge of defections may finally send a wake-up call to the
whole public system. Rather than merely talking of change, it is
time to bring some about. (To publish this fascinating 1,200-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
TAKAYAMA, Japan In what colleagues hailed as a historic
landmark, 120 physicists from 23 research institutions in Japan and
the United States announced on Friday that they had found the
existence of mass in a notoriously elusive subatomic particle
called the neutrino.
The neutrino, a particle that carries no electric charge, is so
light that it was assumed for many years to have no mass at all.
After Friday's announcement, cosmologists will have to confront the
possibility that much of the mass of the universe is in the form of
neutrinos. The discovery will also compel scientists to revise a
highly successful theory of the composition of matter known as the
Standard Model.
Word of the discovery had drawn some 300 physicists here to
discuss neutrino research. Among other things, they said, the
finding of neutrino mass might affect theories about the formation
and evolution of galaxies and the ultimate fate of the universe. If
neutrinos have sufficient mass, their presence throughout the
universe would increase the overall mass of the universe, possibly
slowing its present expansion.
Others said the newly detected but as yet unmeasured mass of the
neutrino must be too small to cause cosmological effects. But
whatever the case, there was general agreement here that the
discovery will have far-reaching consequences for the investigation
of the nature of matter.
Speaking for the collaboration of scientists who discovered the
existence of neutrino mass using a huge underground detector called
Super-Kamiokande, Dr. Takaaki Kajita of the Institute for Cosmic
Ray Research of Tokyo University said that all explanations for the
data collected by the detector except the existence of neutrino
mass had been essentially ruled out.
But because the elusive particles cannot be seen, the evidence
that they have mass is indirect.
Study of the neutrino particle has been glacially slow since its
existence was hypothesized in 1931 by the Austrian physicist
Wolfgang Pauli as a way to explain the mysterious loss of energy in
certain nuclear reactions. The particle was finally discovered in
1956 by two physicists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr.
Frederick Reines (who was awarded a Nobel Prize for the discovery)
and the late Dr. Clyde Cowan.
But understanding of the particle since then has been acquired
painfully slowly, because neutrinos have no electric charge and
rarely interact with any kind of matter. A neutrino so rarely
collides with an atom of ordinary matter that a typical neutrino
can easily penetrate a one-light-year thickness of lead some six
trillion miles without hindrance.
As the writer John Updike put it in a poem he wrote in 1960:
But once in a great while, a neutrino does hit an atom and the
resulting blast of nuclear debris supplies clues about the neutrino
itself. The debris generally includes many particles that can race
through water, mineral oil or even ice, sending out shock waves of
blue light. This light, called Cherenkov radiation, can be detected
by sensitive light sensors and measured.
During the past few decades, scientists have learned that matter
is made up of three distinct flavors or types. This means that
there are three flavors of neutrinos the electron neutrino
associated with the electron, the muon neutrinos, associated with
the muon particle, which is a kind of fat electron, and the tau
neutrino, associated with the tau particle, an even fatter relative
of the electron.
The Super-Kamiokande detector was built two years ago as a joint
Japanese-American experiment. It is essentially a water tank the
size of a large cathedral installed in a deep zinc mine one mile
inside a mountain 30 miles north of here. When neutrinos slice
through the tank, one of them occasionally makes its presence known
by colliding with an atom, which sends blue light through the water
to an array of detectors.
The enormous volume of water in the detector increased the
likelihood of neutrino impacts to the point at which the discovery
of neutrino mass became possible.
Physicists knew that different flavors of neutrinos constantly
arrive from the upper atmosphere and they have calculated that the
ratio between muon nutrinos and other flavors must have a certain
value. But over the years detectors found only about half the muon
neutrino predicted by theory.
The apparent shortage of muon neutrinos was explained by the
recent observations that led to Friday's announcement. The
physicists found that when neutrinos come from the sky directly
over the Super Kamiokande detector a relatively short distance the proportion of muon neutrinos among them was higher than among
the neutrinos coming up from beneath the detector after having
passed through the Earth.
The scientists reasoned that by traveling through the entire
Earth these neutrinos had had time to oscillate, probably many
times, between muon neutrinos and some other type, especially the
tau neutrino, and this accounts for the deficit seen in muon
neutrinos. (The tau neutrino has not yet been directly detected but
it must exist to make observations consistent.)
A related problem has to do with neutrinos produced by the
fusion process in the sun. This process, which merges the nuclei of
hydrogen atoms to form helium nuclei and energy, produces
neutrinos. Astrophysicists believe they understand the mechanism in
complete detail.
The trouble is that all the best detectors ever built find far
fewer neutrinos than should be present according to understanding
of the fusion reaction.
Scientists believe the anomaly can be explained by the
oscillation of detectable solar nutrinos into types that cannot be
detected by existing instruments. But no one has proven this
explanation.
The leader of the collaboration's University of Hawaii Group,
for example, Dr. John Learned, has also worked on an underwater
detection system in the Pacific Ocean off the Hawaiian coast (which
ran out of money before completion) and a project at the South Pole
where a neutrino detector had been buried under thousands of feet
of ice.
Another approach to penetrating the neutrino secrets involves
the use of particle accelerators capable of producing intense beams
of neutrinos. In two experiments currently being prepared, one in
Japan and the other at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in
Illinois, beams of neutrinos will be directed through the Earth
toward detectors several hundred miles away. The goal will be to
observe changes the neutrinos undergo in transit, both in numbers
and types. Physicists expect the experiment to confirm the
existence of neutrino oscillations like those seen in the
Super-Kamiokande detector.
Although the neutrinos are now known to have some mass, most
physicists agree that the mass must be very small. The
Super-Kamiokande experiments suggest that the difference between
the masses of muon nutrinos and other types of neutrinos is only
about 0.07 electron volts (a measure of particle mass). This does
not yield a value of the masses themselves, only of the difference
between those of muon neutrinos and other types.
Although the mass of the neutrino of any flavor must be small,
Totsuka said, it may be several electron-volts, and if so, the
overall gravitational effect on the universe would perhaps be
significant. It has been estimated that at any given moment, every
teaspoon worth of volume of space throughout the universe contains
an average of 300 neutrinos, so their aggregate number is
staggering.
Representatives of dozens of neutrino experiments meet once
every two years to exchange ideas at conferences like the one under
way here. Present are representatives of teams that have installed
neutrino detectors on the bottom of Lake Baikal in Siberia, under
the Aegean Sea off the Greek coast, inside the Gran Sasso tunnel
under the Alps, under the ice covering the South Pole, and in many
other places.
Kenneth Starr is out to get the truth about Bill Clinton. He
wants the truth about a 20-year-old land deal called Whitewater. He
wants the truth about a 24-year-old lady called Monica Lewinsky.
To get that truth, Starr has done most things short of cracking
kneecaps. He has hidden a microphone on an accomplice. He has
subpoenaed bookshop records to see what Lewinsky might be reading.
He has allowed a witness who refused to talk to be kept in jail for
nearly two years.
Starr, having won a legal battle over the right to require
Sidney Blumenthal, a presidential aide, to testify, filed a brief
with the Supreme Court, urging that he be let loose on various
other members of the White House staff, including Secret
Servicemen, who have never yet had to divulge the content of
private presidential conversations. No matter: the truth must out.
Those were the headlines. But, on June 1, Starr also gave a
speech to a bar association in North Carolina, in which he expanded
on his passion for the truth at some length.
Even before this speech, it was often said that the prosecutor's
moral sense was unusually developed: he had grown up as the son of
a conservative minister in small-town Texas; he had never smoked or
drunk or cursed.
It was also said that his lifestyle exuded disciplined devotion:
his teenage hobby was shoe-polishing and his summer job was selling
Bibles; and, though he is busy these days, he likes to rise early
and jog to a creek near his house, where he pauses to sing a hymn
and pray.
It is not surprising, Starr says, that even though 25 out of 42
presidents have been lawyers, the profession is held in contempt
these days. One of the candidates in the Washington, D.C., mayoral
primary is campaigning on the fact that he is not a lawyer.
The unwavering pursuit of truth should indeed animate
prosecuting lawyers like himself; but if you run Starr's general
argument by Geoffrey Hazard, a law professor at the University of
Pennsylvania who is America's leading legal ethicist, you get an
interesting reaction.
Even though no lawyer should be party to perjury, defense
counsels have a duty to impede the search for truth in other ways.
They may advise their clients to invoke the Constitution's Fifth
Amendment, which means they can refuse to testify. They may argue
that incriminating evidence is inadmissible on technical grounds.
Even if they know their client to be guilty, defense lawyers are
supposed to pick holes in the prosecution's arguments, and to get
their clients off.
A lawyer's first duty is to the client, not to the truth,
because the alternative is terrible. If lawyers refuse to defend
clients whom they suspect to be guilty, then some defendants will
appear in court without a lawyer. If suspects know that lawyers may
desert them, they will not be able to confide in them and so
prepare a good defense.
The right to a fair trial cannot exist without defense lawyers
devoted to the business of defending. It is for judges and juries and prosecutors to worry about truth.
When Starr himself was defending tobacco companies some years
ago, and signing briefs arguing that nicotine might not be
addictive, he seemed to understand that the quest for truth must be
balanced against the rights of defendants.
To be fair to Starr, hunting the Clintons is a soul-destroying
business. The president has used every legal trick available to
slow the prosecutor's progress. He has invoked executive privilege
to shield his staff from subpoenas; he has invoked attorney-client
privilege when that failed.
For the past year, the president has assured voters that scandal
investigations will not distract him from the task of government;
but this week (not for the first time) his lawyers claimed the
opposite, in order to persuade a court to keep the investigators at
bay.
All these frustrations are taking their toll on the prosecutor.
In the end, it is to be hoped, Starr may indeed get to the truth;
if the truth does not get to him first. (To publish this insightful 1,050-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
Kenneth Starr is out to get the truth about Bill Clinton. He
wants the truth about a 20-year-old land deal called Whitewater. He
wants the truth about a 24-year-old lady called Monica Lewinsky.
To get that truth, Starr has done most things short of cracking
kneecaps. He has hidden a microphone on an accomplice. He has
subpoenaed bookshop records to see what Lewinsky might be reading.
He has allowed a witness who refused to talk to be kept in jail for
nearly two years.
Starr, having won a legal battle over the right to require
Sidney Blumenthal, a presidential aide, to testify, filed a brief
with the Supreme Court, urging that he be let loose on various
other members of the White House staff, including Secret
Servicemen, who have never yet had to divulge the content of
private presidential conversations. No matter: the truth must out.
Those were the headlines. But, on June 1, Starr also gave a
speech to a bar association in North Carolina, in which he expanded
on his passion for the truth at some length.
Even before this speech, it was often said that the prosecutor's
moral sense was unusually developed: he had grown up as the son of
a conservative minister in small-town Texas; he had never smoked or
drunk or cursed.
It was also said that his lifestyle exuded disciplined devotion:
his teenage hobby was shoe-polishing and his summer job was selling
Bibles; and, though he is busy these days, he likes to rise early
and jog to a creek near his house, where he pauses to sing a hymn
and pray.
It is not surprising, Starr says, that even though 25 out of 42
presidents have been lawyers, the profession is held in contempt
these days. One of the candidates in the Washington, D.C., mayoral
primary is campaigning on the fact that he is not a lawyer.
The unwavering pursuit of truth should indeed animate
prosecuting lawyers like himself; but if you run Starr's general
argument by Geoffrey Hazard, a law professor at the University of
Pennsylvania who is America's leading legal ethicist, you get an
interesting reaction.
Even though no lawyer should be party to perjury, defense
counsels have a duty to impede the search for truth in other ways.
They may advise their clients to invoke the Constitution's Fifth
Amendment, which means they can refuse to testify. They may argue
that incriminating evidence is inadmissible on technical grounds.
Even if they know their client to be guilty, defense lawyers are
supposed to pick holes in the prosecution's arguments, and to get
their clients off.
A lawyer's first duty is to the client, not to the truth,
because the alternative is terrible. If lawyers refuse to defend
clients whom they suspect to be guilty, then some defendants will
appear in court without a lawyer. If suspects know that lawyers may
desert them, they will not be able to confide in them and so
prepare a good defense.
The right to a fair trial cannot exist without defense lawyers
devoted to the business of defending. It is for judges and juries and prosecutors to worry about truth.
When Starr himself was defending tobacco companies some years
ago, and signing briefs arguing that nicotine might not be
addictive, he seemed to understand that the quest for truth must be
balanced against the rights of defendants.
To be fair to Starr, hunting the Clintons is a soul-destroying
business. The president has used every legal trick available to
slow the prosecutor's progress. He has invoked executive privilege
to shield his staff from subpoenas; he has invoked attorney-client
privilege when that failed.
For the past year, the president has assured voters that scandal
investigations will not distract him from the task of government;
but this week (not for the first time) his lawyers claimed the
opposite, in order to persuade a court to keep the investigators at
bay.
All these frustrations are taking their toll on the prosecutor.
In the end, it is to be hoped, Starr may indeed get to the truth;
if the truth does not get to him first. (To publish this insightful 1,050-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
NEW YORK William Abrahams, a Harvard-bred poet who tried his
hand at novels before finding a lasting literary niche as a
distinguished book editor credited with almost single-handedly
preserving the short story as a viable genre, died Tuesday at his
home in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 79 and had presided over the
annual O. Henry short story awards for more than three decades.
For Abrahams, a Boston-born lawyer's son who found his world in
words, the literary life was a quest, first to find the true turn
of his own talent and later to seek out, celebrate, nurture and
hone the talent of others.
It was a measure of his success that he had not only maintained
his own imprint since the 1970s, first with Holt, Rinehart and
Winston, and since 1984 with Dutton, but that he had managed to
work with authors like Joyce Carol Oates, Pauline Kael, Lillian
Hellman, John Knowles, Shirley Hazzard and Jessica Mitford from a
West Coast base far from the Boston-New York publishing axis.
By the time he found his way into editing in 1963, when a friend
got him a part-time job reading manuscripts for Atlantic Monthly
Press, Abrahams had learned a thing or two about the publishing
process.
Some of his early poems had appeared in literary magazines and
been included in anthologies, and he had published four
well-received novels.
Chosen on the basis of his work for Atlantic, Abrahams, who
began as an assistant to the previous editor, Richard Poirier,
became the sole editor of the O. Henry Awards in 1965. Until his
retirement in 1996, he was a powerful and often lonely champion of
the oft-derided genre.
Sure the short story had declined since the glory days of The
Saturday Evening Post and other defunct magazines, but Abrahams
found enough worthy work in literary journals and other little
magazines to make the annual O. Henry collections a recognized
treasure.
Although his imprimatur provided the first national recognition
for scores of writers who went on to distinguished literary
careers, Abrahams did not shirk the famous. A pushover for funny
stories, he once awarded first prize to Woody Allen.
By 1968 Abrahams was so well established that when Stansky, who
had been a young graduate student at Harvard when the two met, was
named associate professor of history at Stanford, Abrahams had no
trouble moving his base to the West Coast.
The Atlantic Monthly Press cheerfully made him West Coast
editor, something of a misnomer for a man whose authors lived all
over the country. As Abrahams once explained, he could work
anywhere that had a telephone.
Abrahams, whose wit and charm, not to mention his legendary
editing skills, inspired devoted loyalty in his authors, would
probably not have been allowed to retire if he wanted to, but he
had showed no sighs of abandoning his lifelong quest for literary
quality.
The economies of the United States and Britain have moved in
surprisingly similar ways in recent years, whether by coincidence
or because both freed their economies in the 1980s. Now Britain's
central bank has stunned observers by raising interest rates,
posing the question whether the Federal Reserve will be the next to
do so.
The Bank of England boosted its base lending rate on Thursday by
a quarter of a percentage point, to 7.5 percent. It said it had
acted because of concerns that wages were rising too rapidly and
consumer spending was so brisk that a revival of inflation was a
serious threat.
Nearly all British economists who monitor the Bank of England 19-of-20, according to a poll by Bloomberg News had expected the
central bank to leave rates unchanged. That was largely because of
signs that Britain's economy is slowing, particularly in exports.
Both stock and bond prices fell in London after the bank's move was
announced.
There are obvious differences between the United States and
Britain, but current economic arguments in both countries are
surprisingly similar. There are inflationary pressures in the U.S.
labor market, about which more will be known on Friday when the
employment figures for May are released, and consumer spending has
been very strong. But inflation does not look like much of a threat
when commodity prices are falling and there is fear that Asian
weakness could slow the economy here. So the Fed has not taken any
action.
It is one of thousands of recently established fundamentalist
Christian schools across America, with a mission to major in Jesus
Christ and minor in everything else.
Grace is housed in a small white clapboard schoolhouse beside a
dried-up creek in Mason, a pretty ranching town of 2,100 people.
Step inside, and it is immediately clear that this is a
different kind of school, with humble resources. Desks line the
main room. Teenagers sit next to small children. The atmosphere is
attentive. There are no classrooms as such, just a single teacher
and two teaching assistants walking up and down.
Grace has 35 children, aged 6 to 18. Its largest-ever graduating
class was three; but in recent years its graduates have gone on to
West Point and Texas AM University, among others.
Because most of these schools do not report to the local
educational authorities, exact numbers are difficult to come by;
but Christian Schools International, one of several umbrella
organizations, claims about 3,200 member schools in the United
States, with 600,000 pupils.
The chief reason for their growth is frustration at the removal
of God from the public schools. But some parents have in general
lost confidence in the state's ability to educate their children,
and others question the government's right to dictate educational
standards.
When is a Christian school a fundamentalist school? There are no
hard-and-fast rules; but an unequivocal belief in creationism is
probably the most reliable indicator.
Parents pay around $125 per child each year for books and course
materials. Some of these courses, such as grammar, are laudable for
their basic approach.
Larger fundamentalist schools charge fees and grant
scholarships, but smaller ones have a different approach. Grace is
typical. Its shoestring budget allows it to educate each child for
roughly $1,000 a year.
Every summer, parents sit down with the school to discuss how
much they can afford to pay, ranging from $50 to $200 a month for
each child. Teachers' pay is paltry. Burges draws a salary only
when all the bills have been paid; in a good year he takes home
$12,000.
Unable to afford a laboratory, Grace uses the great outdoors as
its classroom. In deer season the whole school goes hunting (PE),
butchers a deer (Biology), then cooks it (Home Economics) into
venison burgers for school lunch. And everyone says grace first. (To publish this interesting 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
 By ALAN TRUEX c. 1998, Houston Chronicle ELMONT, N.Y. Unlike most racetracks, Belmont Park is truly a
park, with benches, ponds, trees and shrubs. Outside the barn where
D. Wayne Lukas tends his horses, oak trees stand like giant green
umbrellas. Symbolic, perhaps, of the way Lukas has overshadowed his
competition the past decade and a half.
Lukas clearly likes his name. It is prominently displayed not
only across his barn but on his belt, on his yellow jacket and even
on his black cap. Not that he needs people to notice him. He has
led the nation's trainers in earnings for 14 of the last 15 years,
and he ranks fourth all-time with 10 victories in Triple Crown
events.
But he has been ineffective lately. His best 3-year-old, Cape
Town, ran fifth in the Kentucky Derby and ninth in the Preakness,
when he fractured a foot. He was retired, though not before
delivering a parting shot, kicking Lukas in the head and drawing
blood outside the Preakness barn.
The Lukas bad luck continued Thursday, when he drew the
farthest-out post positions for Yarrow Brae and Grand Slam in
Saturday's 130th Belmont Stakes.
But some horsemen approached Grand Slam's owners expressing
condolences about the unlucky 13 post and commenting how everything
is going Bob Baffert's way. Baffert is the trainer of Real Quiet,
who is trying for the first Triple Crown sweep since Affirmed 20
years ago.
Real Quiet was listed as the 6-5 favorite in the official
morning line, and Baffert was pleased with his No. 8 post,
especially since the 7-2 second favorite, Victory Gallop, pulled
No. 11.
In his only trip on an off track, Real Quiet ran eighth, while
Grand Slam, Yellow Brae and the Houston-connected Victory Gallop
all have run well in mud.
Only 11 horses in a century have won the Triple Crown, and 13
have failed after taking the first two legs.
Grand Slam, the third favorite in the Belmont field, was given
6-1 odds to stop Real Quiet. In the Experimental Free Handicap,
Grand Slam was ranked second to Favorite Trick among 2-year-olds in
1997. He beat Lil's Lad and Halory Hunter in the 1-mile Champagne
Stakes last October. But the next month, he underwent surgery for
an injury to his left hind leg.
Lukas was criticized for rushing the healing process with Grand
Slam, who ran sixth in the San Pedro Handicap in March. The
62-year-old trainer drew flak for entering the colt in the
Lexington Stakes in April.
But third place in that race indicated a comeback was
progressing. That notion was confirmed by a two-length win in the
Peter Pan Stakes two weeks ago at Belmont Park.
As for Yarrow Brae, who will start in the 12th hole at Belmont,
Lukas had hoped the Illinois Derby winner would have a monopoly on
early speed and steal a win. But that hope was diminished by the
unexpected entry Thursday of the front-running Flamingo Stakes
winner Chilito.
It is one of thousands of recently established fundamentalist
Christian schools across America, with a mission to major in Jesus
Christ and minor in everything else.
Grace is housed in a small white clapboard schoolhouse beside a
dried-up creek in Mason, a pretty ranching town of 2,100 people.
Step inside, and it is immediately clear that this is a
different kind of school, with humble resources. Desks line the
main room. Teenagers sit next to small children. The atmosphere is
attentive. There are no classrooms as such, just a single teacher
and two teaching assistants walking up and down.
Grace has 35 children, aged 6 to 18. Its largest-ever graduating
class was three; but in recent years its graduates have gone on to
West Point and Texas AM University, among others.
Because most of these schools do not report to the local
educational authorities, exact numbers are difficult to come by;
but Christian Schools International, one of several umbrella
organizations, claims about 3,200 member schools in the United
States, with 600,000 pupils.
The chief reason for their growth is frustration at the removal
of God from the public schools. But some parents have in general
lost confidence in the state's ability to educate their children,
and others question the government's right to dictate educational
standards.
When is a Christian school a fundamentalist school? There are no
hard-and-fast rules; but an unequivocal belief in creationism is
probably the most reliable indicator.
Parents pay around $125 per child each year for books and course
materials. Some of these courses, such as grammar, are laudable for
their basic approach.
Larger fundamentalist schools charge fees and grant
scholarships, but smaller ones have a different approach. Grace is
typical. Its shoestring budget allows it to educate each child for
roughly $1,000 a year.
Every summer, parents sit down with the school to discuss how
much they can afford to pay, ranging from $50 to $200 a month for
each child. Teachers' pay is paltry. Burges draws a salary only
when all the bills have been paid; in a good year he takes home
$12,000.
Unable to afford a laboratory, Grace uses the great outdoors as
its classroom. In deer season the whole school goes hunting (PE),
butchers a deer (Biology), then cooks it (Home Economics) into
venison burgers for school lunch. And everyone says grace first. (To publish this interesting 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
NEW YORK Dr. Mallalieu S. Woolfolk, a lawyer who gave legal
and political assistance to prominent black elected officials,
including David Dinkins, Percy Sutton and Charles Rangel, died May
30 at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. He was 92 and lived in
Teaneck, N.J.
Woolfolk, whose doctorate was in law, specialized in corporate
law. In recent years, although partly retired, he advised Sutton,
the chairman emeritus of Inner City Broadcasting Corp., which owns
the Manhattan-based radio station WLIB-AM, Queens Inner City Unity
Cable and other radio stations and ventures. Earlier, Woolfolk
provided financial and legal assistance during the founding of
Inner City Broadcasting.
Woolfolk was also associate counsel of the Bill of Rights
Committee at the New York State Constitutional Convention in 1967
and legal secretary to Oliver Sutton, a New York state Supreme
Court judge and a brother of Percy Sutton's.
Woolfolk was long active in the political life of Harlem and New
York City. He assisted in Percy Sutton's successful campaigns for
the state Assembly and for Manhattan borough president. He also
helped Oliver Sutton become elected a Civil Court judge and then a
state Supreme Court justice. And he was active in the campaigns of
congressman Rangel, former Mayor Dinkins and former state Sen.
Basil Paterson.
In addition, Woolfolk was director of training at the Upper
Manhattan Small Business Development Center, which has become the
Workshop in Business Opportunities Inc., a nonprofit organization
that teaches New Yorkers how to become entrepreneurs.
During World War II he served in the Army Air Forces as a member
of the all-black corps of pilots known as the Tuskegee Airmen. He
became a captain and saw combat in the Mediterranean.
Woolfolk was born and raised in Holly Springs, Miss. His early
education was in segregated schools. He received a bachelor's
degree in 1938 from Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Mo., and
a master's degree in psychology in 1940 from the University of
Minnesota. He then taught at Alabama State College before joining
the Army Air Forces in 1942.
He received his law degree in 1951 from De Paul University in
Chicago. In the next two decades he was an energetic civil-rights
advocate and became a figure in Harlem's political life.
NEW YORK Sales are expected to restart next month at Turtle
Bay Towers, putting the 337-unit co-op at 310 East 46th St. back in
the market for the first time in a decade.
The plan reached by the co-op board and Rockrose Development
Corp., the sponsor is to improve the 26-story structure and sell
the 245 unsold apartments, many with terraces and greenhouses.
Prices are expected to range from $135,000 to $400,000 for the
studio lofts and one- and two-bedroom apartments, with 550 to 1,600
square feet. Those prices, on average, are about 5 percent to 10
percent higher than what the units sold for in 1988, when they
originally went on the market.
Market-rate mortgages will also be available to buyers through
American Home Mortgage, overcoming a financing difficulty often
faced by purchasers in buildings where fewer than 51 percent of the
units have been sold. About 95 units are expected to come on the
market this year, starting with as many as 18 next month.
The wedding-cake-style structure, between First and Second
avenues, was converted in 1988 from a rental that Rockrose had
reshaped 13 years earlier from a 1929 office and a light-industrial
loft building that had been damaged by a natural-gas explosion in
1973.
Only 28 percent of the apartments were sold before the recession
hit and the market soured, as did the relationship between the
co-op board and Rockrose, whose headquarters are in the building's
ground-level commercial space.
There are 68 apartments that are leased to rent-stabilized
tenants, who are allowed to remain in their units at regulated
rents. An additional 177 apartments that are also owned by Rockrose
are rented to tenants who replaced residents who had been living in
the building when it became a co-op.
Tenants in these apartments are not protected by rent
regulations, and the market rents that they pay had given Rockrose
little incentive to sell their units because the rents exceeded the
monthly maintenance charges.
Last fall, Rockrose and the co-op board, encouraged by
Manhattan's strong sales market, set their sights on the same goal:
selling the unsold units. After seven months of negotiations, they
devised a refinancing and buildingwide renovation program to make
the building more attractive.
The building's $25 million mortgage was refinanced at a lower
interest rate in April after Rockrose, which held the mortgage,
agreed to waive all but $500,000 of an $11 million prepayment
penalty. The new $30 million loan is at a fixed interest rate of
6.63 percent for 20 years instead of the original 10.53 percent,
said Andrew Singer, chairman of Singer Bassuk Organization, which
arranged the financing for the co-op. The lender was PruExpress, a
subsidiary of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, which is based
in Newark, N.J.
For Turtle Bay Towers, the new loan will enable the co-op board
to make repairs and reduce monthly maintenance fees by 10 percent.
The projected monthly fees will range from $800 to $2,200 on most
apartments, though they will be as high as $2,700 on a few units.
Rockrose, among other things, also will pay its share of the
building's improvements and sell the units a few at a time to
people who want to live in the building rather than in a bulk sale
to investors.
In exchange, the co-op extended Rockrose's lease on the
commercial space, hired the company to manage the building and
agreed to the improvement program.
Rockrose filed an amendment to its offering plan earlier this
week with the New York state attorney general's office. If it is
accepted, which is expected within 30 days, sales will begin.
Tenants buying apartments, which feature 10- to 12-foot-high
ceilings and open floor plans, will be given priority, but not a
discount from the asking prices. The units are to sell at an
average price of about $250 for each square foot of space.
For example, a one-bedroom unit with 850 square feet on the
seventh floor is expected to cost $188,000. In the area, from East
43rd to East 46th streets and from First to Lexington Avenues, the
average sale price of a one-bedroom co-op, typically with 843
square feet, is $182,000, according to Corcoran Group, a brokerage.
Singleton said the units would be renovated at a cost of $10,000
to $12,000 as they became available. Ten are now vacant, and when
leases expire they will generally not be renewed.
NEW YORK State Republican leaders coalesced behind the
re-election campaign of Gov. George Pataki on Thursday, offering a
display of unity highlighted by an effusive public tribute by Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani to two of his most famous rivals: Pataki and Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato.
Giuliani's conciliatory remarks the closest he has come to
apologizing for fiercely opposing Pataki's campaign for governor in
1994 were contained in what had been expected to be a routine
five-minute welcome to 406 Republican delegates assembling in
Manhattan for the Republican State Convention.
Instead, Giuliani nearly overshadowed the renomination of Pataki
for another four-year term. The mayor spoke for 29 minutes in what
was a clear effort to redeem himself with state Republican leaders
whose support could be critical to his future as a state or
national candidate.
Giuliani's remarks came as the Republican Party effortlessly and, at times listlessly voted unanimously to designate Pataki as
its candidate for re-election. The party also nominated Mary
Donohue, a New York state Supreme Court justice, for lieutenant
governor, and Dennis Vacco for a second term as attorney general.
The convention was in almost every sense different from the
convention of four years ago, when D'Amato's forces battled to the
last minute to prevent Pataki, then a little-known state senator
from Peekskill, from facing a primary for the nomination to
challenge Gov. Mario Cuomo.
William Powers, the state Republican Party chairman, read from a
script on the lectern, leading the state committee through the
motions of ratifying a slate that was selected long before any
state committee members checked in at the Sheraton New York Hotel
and Towers in Manhattan.
Pataki then offered the outlines of what is shaping up, at least
in contrast to four years ago, as an unadventurous re-election
strategy. He described his accomplishments of the past four years,
in particular cutting taxes, pushing for environmental protections
and restoring the death penalty. But he offered little insight into
what he might do if re-elected, other than pushing for more tax
cuts.
By design, the day was supposed to be devoid of drama, so that
all attention was directed at Pataki. But Giuliani, who has long
had a competitive relationship with the governor and who is likely
to compete further on the national stage, turned the dynamic with
his speech, which included a lengthy recital of his own
accomplishments as mayor.
Giuliani's welcoming speech was a minute longer than Pataki's
acceptance speech. Asked how long Giuliani's speech was supposed to
be, Zenia Mucha, the governor's communications director, held up
five fingers, and glanced with exasperation at the stage.
Giuliani's remarks bought a measure of disorder to a convention
clearly intended to be orderly. Reporters were relegated to a
separate part of the room and kept away from delegates.
Pataki/Donohue placards were neatly placed on every chair as the
delegates entered the room Thursday morning. A news release that
was issued before the gavel was dropped announced that Pataki had
been unanimously chosen. The schedule even announced when the red,
white and blue balloons hanging over the room would be dropped (at
4 p.m. Thursday).
Pataki, as is his practice, sought to glide above the politics
swirling around him, instead laying out themes of his campaign in
his speech. The Democratic candidate will be chosen in a primary
this September.
The governor painted a dark picture of New York under Democratic
control, and asserted that Republican policies had turned things
around. He recalled being a member of the Assembly, pushing for tax
cuts, reductions in the welfare rolls and the elimination of some
regulations.
NEW YORK As they stood together on the thick carpet of City
Hall for the swearing-in ceremony a few days ago the father a
legendary retired justice, the son just about to ascend to the
bench it seemed to be a storybook moment of generational passage.
The son recalled the moment 30 years before when his father took
the oath, and even talked explicitly about the path of his father's
footsteps. The father beamed.
But modern storybooks are rarely so pat, and it is clear that
the footsteps of Gregory Carro, a newly minted judge of the New
York City Criminal Court, will be his own, not be those of his
well-known father.
When John Carro was named a Criminal Court judge in 1968 by
Mayor John Lindsay, he was one of only two or three Puerto Rican
judges in the city and the first from the Bronx.
He enjoyed telling off a district attorney as much as telling a
riotous story in chambers. His battles with Mario Merola, the
former Bronx district attorney, were so protracted that the court
administration felt it better to transfer him to Manhattan, where
he eventually rose to become the state's highest-ranking Puerto
Rican judge, serving 16 years in the appellate division. And when
two New York senators nominated him to become a federal judge in
1988, the Reagan and Bush administrations sat on his nomination for
three years, telling him they were not interested in activist
judges. He finally withdrew his name angrily in 1991.
Greg Carro, by contrast, has entered the judiciary in an era of
lower volume and more relaxed expectations. There are now about 40
Hispanic judges in the city not enough for his father, but enough
to ease some of the role-model pressure from his shoulders.
He is reserved and careful where his father was outspoken and
colorful, and his views on maintaining an ethnic balance on the
courts are more in tune with the man who appointed him to the
$103,800-a-year job, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.
Greg Carro, who is 38, said he did not even realize his father
was an outspoken liberal when he was growing up. By then, the Carro
family had moved from the Bronx to a more spacious home in Yonkers,
later moving again to the far suburbs of Rockland County, and the
judge did not bring his politics or his cases home to the kitchen
table.
The seven children in the family had the kind of comfortable
middle-class existence John Carro never knew as a child, and there
was never any question but that they would enter the kinds of
professions their father had aspired to. (Of the seven, four are
lawyers and one is a doctor.)
It's a familiar pattern of assimilation, but the pathway is
rarely as thoroughly paved by one generation for another.
Unlike his father, a former defense lawyer, Greg Carro came to
the law through the enforcement side. He has been a prosecutor
since graduating from Rutgers Law School in 1985, first for the
city's special narcotics prosecutor and most recently for the
Manhattan district attorney's office, and he has made a specialty
of successfully prosecuting drug gangs. After 13 years on the job,
he submitted his name as a candidate for a judgeship, seeing it as
a logical progression from his work as a prosecutor and his
father's ideals of public service.
There is one page of the storybook that applies, however: the
son will be getting his father's robe.
For six hours a day, nearly every day since he decided in
January to run for the 20th Congressional District seat, Feiner has
been on the telephone trying to raise the $600,000 that his
advisers say he needs to unseat the Republican incumbent, Rep.
Benjamin Gilman.
Although he is a seasoned local politician, Feiner said he was
surprised to discover that running in a national race was almost
entirely about fund raising. Campaigning in a townwide election, he
said, requires more legwork and more handshaking than it does
money.
Feiner, 42, became involved in politics as a campaign volunteer
at 13 (after a rabbi persuaded him, during his bar mitzvah, not to
become a rabbi). He was a Westchester County legislator for eight
years before being elected Greenburgh town supervisor in 1991.
Greenburgh includes villages along the Hudson River from
Hastings-on-Hudson to Tarrytown, as well as Ardsley, Elmsford and
Hartsdale.
If running a national race has been an education, Feiner has
been a difficult student. He is so contemptuous of the money end of
politics that his fund-raising manager and campaign consultant quit
in May, frustrated because he would not follow their advice.
He made lists, as he was advised to do, of everyone who did
business in the Town of Greenburgh developers, real estate
agents, merchants, corporate directors and called them to solicit
support. He listened to the professionals' tactics and then ignored
their suggestions.
For all his fumbling, most people who knew Feiner gave
something. Some wanted something back. The most egregious case
involved a lawyer he met at a fund-raiser who offered cash and an
introduction to important people in Rockland and Orange counties,
where Feiner is little known and his opponent, Gilman, is very
popular.
The lawyer made it clear he wanted to be given town legal work
in exchange for his support. When Feiner balked, the man withdrew
the offer.
So far, hundreds of people in the 20th Congressional District,
which stretches to Rockland, Orange and Sullivan counties, have
contributed a total of $135,000 to Feiner's campaign. It is far
more than the $70,000 he raised for any of his local races, but not
enough to buy the television and radio ads and pay for the mailings
to reach people in the sprawling district.
The opposing campaign agrees. Gilman, 75, is chairman of the
influential International Relations Committee and is seeking his
14th term in Congress. He plans to raise about $600,000, said Sandi
Thoby, controller for Citizens for Gilman.
If Feiner does not raise enough money to win, he can still hope
to run well and position himself for the future, said Lee
Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public
Opinion.
Feiner, who is married to a lawyer, Sherrie Brown, got his start
as a political noodge. An avid bicyclist, he badgered the
Westchester County Legislature to create bike lanes along the Bronx
River Parkway until it finally gave in.
Feiner once tried to establish a town matchmaking service for
lonely suburban singles, though the plan was later simplified to
town-sponsored singles events, like dances.
He addresses criticism by trying to include everyone in
government. First, Feiner established the call-in town meeting, in
which people can stay home, watch the meeting on cable television
and phone in a comment. Now he has a deputy-supervisor program, and
he makes political foes his deputies on special issues to bring
them into the decision-making process.
 By EDDIE SEFKO c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SALT LAKE CITY The way the Chicago Bulls continue to talk the big
talk, they surely must be the most dominant team ever to fall
behind 1-0 in the NBA Finals.
Even though they have lost their last four road games and,
apparently, the snap and mystique that have made them one of the
NBA's dynasties, the Bulls say their will to win is stronger than
ever.
But the facts do nothing to support their case that this is the
same Bulls team that confidently and routinely wins tight games and
resists those muscle-tightening situations because they are who
they are.
Even the Utah Jazz, who will go for a 2-0 lead tonight at the
Delta Center, notices the difference.
Russell ended up being one of those mismatches whenever he lined
up against Toni Kukoc. Russell had 15 points and eight rebounds in
Game 1; Kukoc had nine points and three rebounds.
That no doubt makes Phil Jackson happy. What would make the
Zen-spouting coach happier is if the Bulls would prove again
tonight in Game 2 they haven't slipped a notch or two when it comes
to being clutch performers.
After one game of the Finals, it's far too early to write off
the Bulls. But Jackson said Thursday that his team was showing its
age, mainly because the Bulls were tired at the end of Game 1.
He cited two plays Jordan's inability to elevate and
subsequent shot-clock violation with 1:19 left in overtime and
Steve Kerr's hack of John Stockton when a still-fresh-looking
Stockton drove for a layup. The three-point play put Utah ahead by
five points in overtime.
The Jazz was vastly superior to the Bulls in the overtime.
Whether or not it was the fatigue taking its toll on Chicago, which
was playing its sixth game in 12 days and facing the Jazz, which
was coming off 10 days of rest, the Bulls did not look like
themselves.
What might help the Bulls is diversity. Jordan and Pippen
combined for 48 of the Bulls' 82 shots and for 54 of their 85
points.
Shandon Anderson, a member of Utah's productive bench, which
outscored Chicago's reserves 22-8, said he believes such numbers
don't work in the Bulls' favor. Anderson said he believes the Bulls
might be too reliant on Jordan. When the Bulls give the basketball
to Jordan, it's almost as if they rest and watch.
Then, at the end, Jordan and Pippen were fatigued and had
trouble making plays. They were a combined 1-for-4 from the field
in overtime.
The all-media wake for Frank Sinatra and the countdown that
preceded it took me back to April 1984, when I first dipped my toe
into the ghoul pool.
You've heard about the office football pool, and the baseball
Rotisserie league. But incredibly tasteless as it seems, countless
workplaces are also offering the dead pool, a funereal game of
wagering on when celebrities will meet their demise.
Neatly pairing two of America's prime obsessions fame and
death the game is another variation on your typical water-cooler
sport. Only instead of betting on scores, players toss pennies
against death's door.
To beat the odds, poolers scour the tabloids and gossip columns
for hints about their candidates' continued viability. The aged or
the terminally ill don't score the ghoulish competitor many points,
but who could have foreseen the recent untimely exits of Sonny
Bono, Chris Farley or John Denver?
As appalling as betting on the prospect of death may be,
wagering in the twilight zone is apparently appealing to a growing
number of Americans if the rise in the number of Web sites
dedicated to the subject is any gauge.
Dead-pool playbooks vary, but the most common version requires
contestants to compile a mortfolio of 10 celebrities they expect to
die and then submit it with an entrance fee by the beginning of
each year. Come Dec. 31, the most prescient player wins. Deaths and celebrity are typically confirmed by an Associated Press
obituary. Without that, you're nothing.
In some games, only one player can hold rights to a given
celebrity; others require a payoff upon each celebrity's passing,
rather than a once-a-year accounting. In many pools, the payoff is
far greater for choices with lower odds of mortality, which is what
so troubled trader Dave about Marvin Gaye.
But perhaps not until it got to Wall Street where betting is
like breathing did the ghoul pool find a permanent home.
In large law firms, ghoul lagoons are often gurgling in the back
of some paralegal's cubicle. A mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer at
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen Katz in New York City says his name would
be the next to surface in his firm's pool if such unjudicial
shenanigans were publicized.
Just as laptop computer technology has enabled day trading and
desktop publishing to flourish outside the office, so the Web
browser has brought ghoul pools to life for the average investor.
It is now possible to play such diverse and painfully tacky venues as the Lee Atwater Invitational Dead Pool, Not Your Mother's
Dead Pool, Dewey's Death Pool, Chalk Outlines and Dead Club, to
name but a handful.
The Atwater Invitational, named after the take-no-prisoners GOP
campaign strategist who died in 1991 at age 40 of brain cancer
(http://stiffs.com), was started that year by Zachariah Love, a
venue-booker in Los Angeles.
Love moved the game to the Web in 1996, where it now has almost
600 players paying an $11 entrance fee for a shot at the $1,500
annual prize.
Interest in Internet versions has grown to the point where some
pools are specializing in picking death days for one celebrity.
Several months ago, Michael Moore, a student at California State
University at Long Beach and the operator of Tregoire's 1998 Dead
Pool (www.flash.net/mmoore72/deadpool.htm) spun off a Sinatra-only
site. Lucas Trerice, 20, a student at University of Washington, won
by taking the midpoint of guesses.
To indicate how quickly attitudes have shifted on the subject of
death or of good taste when Ms. Rutherford first asked Yahoo,
the Web indexer, to list her site three years ago, executives said
the content wasn't appropriate. Today, Yahoo lists 18 ghoul pools,
including Ms. Rutherford's, which gets more than 1,000 hits a week.
And as for Dave, my disgruntled Amex floor trader, the first
lady of the American stage was in no hurry to accommodate him.
Helen Hayes took her final bow nine years later, with dignity, at
age 92.
Almost everywhere you turn, the financial services industry is
offering free software to analyze whether you should convert your
traditional Individual Retirement Account to a new Roth IRA, which
allows tax-free withdrawals.
Say you have $100,000 in your IRA and expect to stay in the 28
percent tax bracket, that you anticipate 8 percent annual pretax
growth and that you will take all your money in a lump sum 20 years
from now.
The analyzer disk distributed by T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore
mutual fund company, calculates that after you have paid taxes up
front to convert to a Roth, you will have $466,096 to spend in
2018. That is a hefty 12.4 percent more than the $414,649 after
taxes at withdrawal if you stick with a traditional IRA.
But plug the same facts into the Roth analyzer from Merrill
Lynch and it calculates that you will have far less, no matter what
you do: $390,843 if you convert to a Roth and $335,589 if you do
not.
The calculator of Strong Funds, the mutual fund company based in
Menomonee Falls, Wis., generates the same figure as T. Rowe Price
if you convert and the same as Merrill Lynch if you don't.
Not everyone can convert: To qualify, you must have less than
$100,000 of adjusted gross income (the last number on the front
page of your Form 1040 tax return).
If you convert this year, Congress has a special deal the
taxes due at conversion must be paid in four annual installments,
which amounts to a slight discount on the tax bill. People who
convert in future years must pay the taxes all at once.
The multitude of Roth analyzers, even when they use the same
methodology, often generate slightly different figures because of
subtle differences in their programs, like whether earnings are
compounded annually or daily, and whether the taxes are assumed to
be paid on Jan. 1 or April 15.
If you expect your tax rate to be higher when you retire than it
is now, switch to a Roth. But if you expect your tax rate to fall,
the decision gets complicated, depending on how much your tax rate
drops and how many years will pass before you retire.
The T. Rowe Price, Merrill Lynch and Strong calculators come up
with different figures because each treats taxes differently especially the upfront payments to be made when converting a
traditional IRA to the Roth version.
You must pay income taxes on your traditional IRA when you
withdraw the money, either years from now in retirement or
immediately if you convert to a Roth.
All three companies assume that if you convert today, you will
move your entire IRA balance to a Roth and pay the taxes from some
other source. But they track that side fund for tax payments in
different ways.
T. Rowe Price assumes that if you convert, you will take the
money from taxable savings, and that if you do not convert, that
the taxable savings account will continue to grow in tandem with
your IRA and at the same rate as the IRA, minus taxes.
Strong Funds just ignores the taxable savings account in its
analysis, though it does refer to it in its fine print without
calculating the financial impact.
Byron Vielehr, Strong's vice president for electronic
distribution, said that was done to avoid raising other complex
issues like capital gains taxes that may be due if the taxes are
paid from the proceeds of selling appreciated securities.
Gordon Goodfellow, a retirement specialist at Watson Wyatt
Worldwide, a compensation consultancy, said T. Rowe Price's
technique was the best because it compared apples with apples for
both strategies.
Joseph Mintz, a semi-retired Dallas insurance agent and consumer
advocate who for 30 years has pressed banks, insurers and the
Internal Revenue Service to make fuller disclosures about how they
do their calculations, said that using any technique but the one
adopted by T. Rowe Price made it impossible to compare on an annual
basis whether you would benefit more from sticking with your
traditional IRA or converting to a Roth.
When the fire alarm went off during a lunchtime workout last
month at the YMCA at Lexington Avenue and 53rd Street, it was
everybody out of the basement pool.
As a programmer for Prodigy in the early 1990s, Paul R. Loring
of Pleasantville, N.Y., was accustomed to wearing casual clothing
in the office while the rest of the staff was wearing suits.
Holly M. Horning, the president of Image Design Group of
Alexandria, Va., which teaches individuals and companies how to use
image as a tool, works daily with the problem of office dress. In
the course of her work, she has come across:
 A senior executive who runs several miles to work in his
two-piece jogging suit and then strips to his T-shirt and running
shorts and begins work without bothering to shower.
 A senior partner in a law firm who wore a polo shirt and jeans
while greeting prospective clients in a major case. Judging him by
his clothing, they assumed he was an associate and went elsewhere,
offended because they thought the firm had assigned their case to
an inexperienced lawyer.
 A woman who sent productivity plummeting by arriving for her
job in the shortest of Lycra miniskirts and a strapless, stretchy
bandeau top.
Like many people, the doctor and his associate believed that
Casual Friday would spin out of control.
Arlene B. Isaacs, a New York City business consultant and
executive coach, remembers a 26-year-old client who took the
interpretation to extremes.
At their first meeting, Ms. Isaacs recalled, the client wore
high-heeled sandals and was encased in a floral polyester jumpsuit,
worn without a bra; her fingernails and toenails were painted
black, which matched the roots of her dyed blond hair.
Peter Giuliano, the chairman and founder of Executive
Communications Group, a consulting firm in Englewood, N.J., recalls
an instructor who led a program in media training for a client in
Tennessee.
Part of the program dealt with how to dress for a tough
on-camera interview, and how to handle the questions. Because the
participants were field technicians at a chemical plant, the
instructor disregarded their casual attire at the session work
boots, overalls and T-shirts.
One of the workers, however, had soot on his face and wore a red
bandanna around his neck, so the instructor gently told him to wash
for his final on-camera interview the next day.
The client did as told, turning up clean and shiny. He would
have made a perfect spokesman for the company, except for one
detail.
Because this was the company's official casual day, he left his
dentures at home.
NEW YORK Opening a new front in the battle over the future of
Yankee Stadium, George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner,
all but threatened Thursday night to leave New York City unless
Peter Vallone, the City Council speaker, abandoned his push for a
referendum on whether city money should be used to help build a new
ball park.
Steinbrenner's comments came only hours after City Council
leaders, in a rare act of defiance of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani,
unveiled their own plan for the city's next budget. For the last
several days, the mayor and the City Council have been deadlocked
over the budget because of Giuliani's refusal to consider any
changes proposed by the council unless Vallone abandoned his call
for a public vote on the stadium issue.
In his statement, Steinbrenner accused Vallone of using the
referendum to bolster his campaign for governor, and added:
The Yankees owner's words were the strongest he has used so far
on the subject of the team's future home, and they came a month
after Steinbrenner stated that he would refrain from discussing the
team's future until the end of the season because, he said, the
issue had become too emotional and politicized.
Colleen Roche, a spokeswoman for the mayor, said she was unaware
of Steinbrenner's five-paragraph statement, which echoed many of
the criticisms of Vallone that Giuliani and his aides had voiced
hours earlier. But aides to the council speaker accused the mayor
of pressing Steinbrenner to issue the statement.
Vallone has argued that the voters should have a say in whether
to use hundreds of millions of dollars in public money for sports
stadiums. Giuliani has contended that such a vote would galvanize
opposition to the idea of building a new stadium on the West Side
of Manhattan and push the Yankees owner to look for a new stadium
site in New Jersey.
The war of words came at the close of a day in which Vallone and
the mayor wrangled aggressively over the budget and its tangled
connection with the stadium issue.
With the negotiations stalled over the budget, the council
offered its own proposal that is expected to be approved Friday.
That plan, at $34.08 billion, was actually $49 million less than
the budget proposed by the mayor a few weeks ago, and contained a
few hundred million dollars in changes that, especially in a year
of a $2 billion record surplus, could be expected to be ironed out
easily through the usual give-and-take of budget talks.
Nevertheless, the two sides spent the day warring and accusing
each other of fiscal recklessness and political duplicity.
The council has never adopted its own budget since acquiring the
power to do so under the City Charter revision of 1989. And if, as
expected, the overwhelmingly Democratic council approves the
Vallone budget, the action is likely to trigger a series of legal
battles with the mayor, possibly beginning with a veto within the
next five days.
A vote for a separate budget would abruptly end a long period of
fiscal harmony between the city's two most powerful politicians,
whose annual budget negotiations have been complicated this year by
Vallone's gubernatorial ambitions and Giuliani's desire to secure a
new home for the Yankees.
Both men were able to iron out painful cuts during the recession
a few years ago; this year, New York's current financial boom has
given them ample room to propose costly, and competing, projects.
The mayor who wants to use $600 million over the next few
years to help pay for new ball parks, including a possible Yankee
stadium on Manhattan's West Side demanded that the speaker drop
his push for a referendum that would ask voters whether taxpayers'
money should be used for ball parks. Vallone, one of several
Democrats hoping to oppose Gov. George Pataki in November, refused
to even discuss the topic.
At the same time, the council speaker pushed for steep cuts in
the city's personal income tax, a proposal intended to give him a
strong selling point on the stump and to pre-empt any criticism
that he has supported tax increases in the past. In an apparent
reversal, the Republican mayor opposed these tax cuts, arguing that
the city could not afford them.
The cuts, which would cost the city about $201 million in
revenues in the next budget and more than $500 million a year after
that, could also jeopardize Giuliani's plan to use at least $600
million from a commercial rent tax to help pay for new stadiums,
especially if Wall Street's torrent into the city coffers turns
into a trickle.
Council leaders included the tax cuts in the spending plan that
they released Thursday. That plan also seeks to retire $165 million
in debt; it restores cuts by the mayor and finances some new
programs, including recycling, library services, after-school
programs and day-care services.
In the spending plan, the council said it could finance its
goals by cutting $112 million from various city agencies, and by
recalculating savings the city would get from reduced welfare
rolls, lower interest rates paid on its long-term debt, and other
areas. Joseph Lhota, the mayor's budget director, described these
assumptions as risky.
Mastro declined to say whether Giuliani would veto items from
the plan or veto it entirely, which he would have to do by
Wednesday. Although the council could then override his veto, the
mayor has said that he would impound city funds to spend on
programs which would likely move the fight from the City Charter
to the courts. The city's new fiscal year begins on July 1.
As the city government prepared to deal for the first time with
a nonconsensus budget, some officials bemoaned that the breakdown
would ultimately hurt taxpayers.
While others scramble to divine the stock market impact of, say,
a nuclear test on the Indian subcontinent, the folks who run the
Calvert World Values International Equity fund spend much of their
time on a broader question. Is the nuclear testing right or wrong?
The first thing investors should know is that the ethical
compass used by Calvert World Values differs from of domestic
Calvert siblings a difference that the company readily
acknowledges.
For example, Calvert expects its American companies to derive
virtually none of their revenues from tobacco or alcohol. But
Calvert World Values can invest in companies that derive as much as
10 percent of their revenues from tobacco or alcohol.
The fund cannot buy shares of companies that earn more than 10
percent of their revenue from weapons contracting, which is the
same restriction its parent applies in the United States. But in
America, Calvert applies extra screens, for example, knocking off
all companies that net the top 85 percent of the Defense
Department's weapons contracts.
There are some absolutes. The fund will not buy shares in
companies that use child labor or forced labor. And because their
countries are on Calvert's short list of human-rights abusers, the
fund would be hard-pressed to own shares in companies based in
Burma, China or Nigeria.
How does the fund work? The portfolio is managed by Andrew V.
Preston, director of Murray Johnstone International, based in
Glasgow, Scotland. Preston starts with a top-down approach,
searching for markets that are relatively undervalued. Then, he and
seven Murray Johnstone analysts search for stocks with good
earnings-growth potential and reasonable valuations.
After Preston has selected a list of likely stocks, he goes
through the social criteria prepared by Calvert and tosses out
those that don't make the grade. (Calvert won't say how many.)
When the fund decided that Germany was looking attractive, it
zeroed in on Daimler-Benz. That automaker did not fit its social
criteria Calvert won't say why so the fund bought Volkswagen
instead.
Since its inception in July 1992, Calvert World has returned
10.8 percent, annualized, compared with 11.5 percent for the
average foreign stock fund, according to Morningstar Inc., the
financial publisher in Chicago. But through May 29, its three-year
average annualized total return was 14 percent, versus 12.5 percent
for its average peer fund. For the 12-month period, it returned
15.2 percent, versus 13.8 for its average peer.
As for the fund's biggest current holdings, there are a lot of
staid financial firms: Zurich Insurance of Switzerland, Banque
National de Paris and Fortis, a Belgian insurance company.
Currently, Preston's favorite market is Britain, at 19 percent
of the fund; followed by France, 14 percent, and Japan, 11 percent.
The fund does not put its money to work in markets that might seem
to need it most. Just 10 percent of the fund is in emerging
markets. And it has not decided whether to avoid India or Pakistan
because of the nuclear tests.
NEW YORK A federal judge in Manhattan ruled Thursday that a
jury may be told of allegations of an earlier incident of police
brutality by Francis Livoti. The former police officer is charged
with violating the civil rights of Anthony Baez, a Bronx man who
died after he was choked during a 1994 arrest.
In the earlier incident, Livoti was accused of slapping and
choking a Bronx teen-ager named Steven Resto in 1993. Livoti was
later convicted in that assault, and sentenced to 7 1/2 months in
prison.
Judge Shira Scheindlin's decision to allow prosecutors to use
the Resto incident in Livoti's civil-rights trial is a setback for
the defense of the former police officer, who was dismissed from
the force last year.
In 1996, Livoti was acquitted on state charges in connection
with Baez's death in a trial in which a judge said that he would
not allow allegations of other cases of misconduct to be introduced
at trial.
Judge Scheindlin set a hearing for Tuesday to consider the third
incident prosecutors are seeking to use at trial. According to the
government's account in court papers, Livoti was in the process of
arresting one man, Manuel Bordoy, in 1990 by twisting his arm
behind his back, when a second man, Ivan Cruz, approached and told
Livoti that he was being unnecessarily rough. The two men were
returning home to the Bronx from a nightclub in Manhattan.
Livoti then punched Bordoy in the face twice, breaking his jaw
in three places, the prosecutors said. They said that Cruz was
charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, but those
charges were dismissed. Bordoy was also charged with resisting
arrest, but was acquitted following a trial, the prosecutors said.
Livoti's lawyer, Stuart London, declined comment Thursday night
on Judge Scheindlin's ruling, but had objected earlier in court to
the government's attempt to introduce the 1990 and 1993 incidents.
London had argued that they could prejudice the jury as it weighed
the evidence against Livoti in Baez's death, the only incident for
which he has been charged with a federal violation of civil rights.
London said Thursday night that his client, who has pleaded not
guilty in the civil rights case, denies using any excessive force
in any of the incidents raised by the government. If convicted,
Livoti faces up to 10 years in prison.
NEW YORK A third of the 162-season is complete, and the New
York Yankees are on a pace to win 123 games after beating Tampa
Bay, 6-1, at Yankee Stadium Thursday night. But the Yankees will
have to play at least the next two weeks without star shortstop
Derek Jeter.
Jeter, perhaps the Yankees' best player in the first two months
of the season, was placed on the 15-day disabled list Thursday with
a strained abdominal muscle, an injury he sustained while taking a
swing in Wednesday night's game. In his absence Thursday night, the
Yankees (41-13) pummeled the Devil Rays' Dennis Springer, who has
nine losses since April 7 the same number the Yankees' entire
team has in the same period. Hideki Irabu allowed only six hits and
one run in 7 1/3 innings, and Bernie Williams had three hits and
two runs batted in.
Jeter is hitting .325 with eight home runs and 34 RBI. He has
scored 52 runs, the most of any player in the major leagues, and
before his injury he ranked eighth in the American League in
batting average, second in hits, seventh in multihit games, seventh
in stolen bases. Many in the game believe that if the season were
to end today, Jeter could be the American League's most valuable
player.
Jeter, 23, swung and missed in the fifth inning of Wednesday's
game and immediately stiffened with pain. Jeter tried some practice
swings, pronounced himself fit and continued his at-bat, grounding
out. But after trying some throws before the next half-inning,
Jeter walked off, replaced by Luis Sojo, and was found to have a
mild abdominal strain. Torre said he expected Jeter to be ready by
the end of the 15 days on the disabled list, but noted the
sometimes indefinable nature of abdominal strains. Sometimes an
abdominal injury heals quickly, sometimes it lingers, and this
early in the season, the Yankees want to be sure.
Sojo, who after Thursday night's 0-for-4 is batting .174 in
limited action, will start in Jeter's place, with Scott Brosius
moving from the bottom of the order to fill the No. 2 slot where
Jeter has batted all season. The Yankees are somewhat vulnerable,
however, because their Class AAA shortstop, Gabby Martinez, is out
of action because of personal problems.
Lessening the blow, however, is the fact that the Yankees are in
a stretch of games against truly bad teams. They beat the hapless
Chicago White Sox on Monday and Tuesday, play host to the
dismantled Florida Marlins in a three-game interleague series
beginning Friday night and then travel to Montreal for a three-game
series next week.
And they completed a two-game wipeout of Tampa Bay Thursday
night. Orlando Hernandez mesmerized the Devil Rays on Wednesday,
and Irabu (5-1) overpowered them Thursday night, striking out six.
He struck out the side in the fourth, whiffing Fred McGriff, Paul
Sorrento and Bobby Smith in order. Graeme Lloyd finished the last
inning and two-thirds.
The Yankees jumped on Springer early, effectively deciding the
outcome in the first three innings. Springer walked Tino Martinez
to open the Yankees' second inning before Williams hit the first of
his three singles. Darryl Strawberry then blooped a hit over
shortstop, and when the ball skipped past left fielder Dwight Winn,
Martinez scored. Williams scored later in the inning.
Williams, who was named the AL player of the month for May,
slapped a two-run single in the third inning, giving the Yankees a
4-1 advantage; Williams has 26 RBI in his last 23 games. Paul
O'Neill capped the Yankees' scoring in the seventh with a solo home
run.
These Yankees continue to play on the fringes of history: The
best 54-game start in club history was achieved by the 1939
Yankees, who were 43-11. They lead second-place Boston by 10 games
in the loss column in the AL East; Baltimore, in fourth place, is
15{ games behind. The Yankees could win just half of their
remaining 108 games and finish with a 95-67 record, and that, in
itself, probably would be good enough to qualify for the
postseason.
The Yankees traded pitcher Willie Banks to the Arizona
Diamondbacks for a right-handed reliever, Scott Brow, and a minor
league pitcher, Joe Lisio. Brow, 29, flew across country and was
activated for Thursday night's game to replace Derek Jeter on the
roster. Brow, 29, had a 7.17 earned run average in 17 appearances
for the Diamondbacks. Banks, 29, went 1-1 with a 10.05 ERA in nine
appearances this season before being designated for assignment last
week. Lisio is being assigned to Class AA.
 By CARLTON THOMPSON c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN DIEGO Mike Hampton's command abandoned him on day when Andy
Ashby happened to be conducting a seminar on the subject.
In a nutshell, that summed up the Astros' 5-1 loss to the San
Diego Padres on Thursday at Qualcomm Stadium.
Ashby lectured the Astros' bats with an assortment of pitches
that ranked among the best they had seen all season. The
righthander sprinkled eight hits over nine innings to notch his
third consecutive complete game and his fourth of the season.
Moises Alou's homer leading off the ninth inning spoiled Ashby's
shutout bid, but that was about the only mistake the hot-handed
pitcher made all day.
For one of the few times this season, Hampton was at the other
end of the spectrum although he still managed to keep the Astros
close. Hampton held the Padres to five hits in 6 innings, but he
walked five batters.
Two of the walks led to runs, but they proved to be meaningless.
Ashby got all the run support he needed in the first inning when
Greg Vaughn hit a two-run homer to left.
The loss cut the Astros' National League Central Division lead
over the idle Chicago Cubs to one game and left them with a 3-3
record on the six-game road trip to Colorado and San Diego.
The Astros missed Padres ace Kevin Brown, but they couldn't
dodge the hottest pitcher in San Diego's rotation. Ashby, who had
eight strikeouts Thursday, is 2-1 with a 1.73 ERA in his last three
starts.
With the exception of Alou's 12th homer, the Astros didn't get a
runner into scoring position after the second inning.
The Astros got off to an inauspicious start when Quilvio Veras
led off first with what appeared to be a bloop single. Center
fielder Carl Everett charged the ball and nearly made the play, but
it got past him and Veras was credited with a double.
That all but assured Hampton (7-3) would have to face Vaughn,
one of the hottest hitters in the majors, with a runner in scoring
position. Vaughn's homer was his third in the series and his fifth
against the Astros in six games.
Hampton retired eight batters in a row after Vaughn's homer and
faced 13 batters before he allowed another hit. Veras broke through
with a single in the fifth to score Andy Sheets, who had drawn a
leadoff walk. The Padres added two runs in the seventh on a squeeze
bunt by Ashby (7-4) and a sacrifice fly by Veras.
 c. 1998, Houston Chronicle ELMONT, N.Y. The nagging question Thursday no pun intended was this: If Real Quiet is in a class of his own, why are a dozen
colts so eager to challenge him in the Belmont Stakes?
The ultimate matchup, of course, was assured once this dark bay
emerged from the bargain basement to win the Kentucky Derby and the
Preakness. The bigger race is Real Quiet against the years, and
against the world.
When Affirmed held off Alydar to win the Triple Crown 20 years
ago, the last time it was done, only four colts bothered to run
against them in the Belmont. The size of Saturday's field speaks to
the history of this event and the delayed judgment on Real Quiet.
Arrayed against the Bob Baffert entry is Victory Gallop, the
best of the dirty dozen, and an outbreak of human nature. Of the 11
horses who made the sweep, six led from wire to wire, and their
names have the sound of trumpets. Secretariat and Count Fleet ran
virtually alone. The others who won from start to finish were War
Admiral, Seattle Slew and Affirmed.
This is a schizoid time for racing fans, who crave another
Triple Crown winner to uplift the sport, but worry the newest
contender might be unworthy of such elite company. The naysayers
rate Real Quiet as a good horse, getting better, in a less than
vintage year.
But the Belmont is often a cure for skepticism. This is where
champions come to get their tickets punched, and their names
immortalized. As Baffert points out, it isn't Real Quiet's fault so
many promising rivals met with misfortune, like characters in a
script by Agatha Christie.
The Belmont has a mystique all its own. To begin with, the
racetrack is an hour by train from the sidewalks of New York, which
means that if you can make it here you can make it anywhere. The
Long Island area drips with history. The nearby Roosevelt Field,
now a shopping center, is built on property that once included the
300-foot, dirt runway used by Amelia Earhart. She is referred to
locally as the last woman to leave Roosevelt Field without buying
anything.
Primarily, it is the unsparing physical demands of the Belmont
that offers Real Quiet his passport to greatness. At a mile and
half, the race is a throwback to another America, when the Pony
Express delivered the mail and the premium was on endurance, not
speed. You might conclude the postal priorities haven't changed
much, but this is certain: horses that win the Belmont are not
forgotten.
That was 25 years ago. Secretariat, with Ron Turcotte in the
saddle, was expected to be threatened by Sham, a terrific colt
ridden by Lafitte Pincay.
The Triple Crown and more than $5 million in bonus purses await
a victory by Real Quiet on Saturday. But whether the pace is fast
or slow, this will be the Belmont's anniversary waltz. Fifty years
after Citation's stunning victory, 25 for Secretariat and 20 for
Affirmed. Since 1984, no Belmont winner has won it wire to wire,
and none has come from more than four lengths back in the final
half-mile.
A year ago, Touch Gold trailed with a furlong to go, and roared
past Silver Charm at the finish, denying Bob Baffert a Triple
Crown. He is the first trainer in this century to win the Kentucky
Derby and Preakness in back-to-back years, and he believes the
Belmont owes him one. He is 0-for-7 in New York.
Anyone who has walked past a stable will tell you horses have a
personality, even an attitude. After Secretariat's triple, Mrs.
Chenery, then known as Penny Tweedy, commissioned the artist LeRoy
Neiman to paint a mural of Big Red.
A friend walked in while he was standing in front of his
unfinished work, hands resting on his hips.
Then he stepped forward, with one stroke added a white line
across the canvas the rail and the painting came alive.
Advice is plentiful at the track, but the great ones, horses or
jockeys or trainers, go their own way.
GLEN SPEY, N.Y. In this tiny hamlet where about a quarter of
the residents are elderly Ukrainians, the few people who knew
Dmytro Sawczuk were more sympathetic then alarmed about the news
that the federal government had moved to revoke his citizenship
because he apparently lied about his Nazi past when he immigrated
to this country 50 years ago.
Sawczuk, now 73, said he had been a sawmill worker in Germany
and a farmer in his native Poland, in an area of the country
divided between the Russians and Germans during World War II. But
according to the Justice Department's office of special
investigation, which handles cases of suspected war criminals and
collaborators, Sawczuk had been a guard at a succession of Nazi
labor and death camps from 1943 to 1945.
Melnyk lives on a street named for a prominent Ukrainian, in a
neighborhood where little English is heard. Down the country road
are two Ukrainian churches, one Orthodox and one Catholic, built to
mimic the folk architecture of the wooden churches in the
Carpathian Mountains. There is also a Ukrainian resort here, the
scene of an annual summer festival that draws more than 10,000
people from Ukrainian strongholds throughout the Northeast.
The councilman, who once directed a Ukrainian variety show on
public-access television, said that 150 Ukrainian families live
here full time and 500 others own properties, either weekend
retreats or land they plan to use when they retire. Among the
residents of Glen Spey is the esteemed Ukrainian poet Wasyl Barka,
one of many who helped build the wooden church by hand.
Few of the non-Ukrainians here know Sawczuk and even his
countrymen had only a glancing acquaintance, describing him and his
wife, Elizabeth, as reserved, private people. The postmaster,
Bernard Lehr, said he knew most of the Ukrainians in town, since
they preferred post office boxes to home delivery and came once a
day to claim their mail, often bringing him sweet treats. But
Sawczuk, although he has a box, is a stranger.
The councilman often saw Sawczuk in town and inquired about his
failing health. Hronsky asked the same question last Sunday when
the ailing old man came for services at St. Volodymyr's. To both,
Sawczuk gave the same answer: He was going downhill, losing his
battle with cancer and heart disease.
Hronsky saw Dmytro and Elizabeth Sawczuk each Sunday at church.
Last January, during the Epiphany, the priest visited the couple to
bless their house, a modern, unadorned structure on an unpaved road
outside of town.
During that Epiphany pastoral call, the priest learned that the
Sawczuks came from Yonkers, as he did. Mrs. Sawczuk offered to buy
Hronsky delicacies at a Ukrainian market the next time she drove
her husband there for a doctor's appointment.
On Thursday, the Sawczuk house was dark and apparently empty. No
one responded to a knock at the door and windows to the foyer were
masked with paper towels.
Retired people dominate in these parts, whether they are
native-born Americans, Ukrainians or German immigrants who settled
in an enclave known as Black Forest, for its resemblance to the
countryside of Bavaria. During the war, locals say, Black Forest
was thought to be a Nazi haven; rumor had it the area was under
federal surveillance.
The Ukrainians, like the Germans, have been attracted to the
same landscape, with forests of fir and pine and ice-cold trout
streams. Melnyk, for one, drove through on the way to New York 50
years ago, stumbled into a restaurant where the owner spoke his
language, bought a weekend place and knew he had found his
retirement home.
Now, the nearest restaurant is a few towns away. The only
commerce is a general store and gas station and working people find
jobs only in Monticello or Middletown. In the summer, children's
camps liven things up a bit. But ask the locals what is most
interesting about Glen Spey and they will mention a state preserve
for the protection of nesting bald eagles.
But in the 19th century and the early 20th, the area bustled
with commerce. An executive at the Singer sewing machine company
built a splendid weekend estate in 1870 and turned his 3,000 acres
into an earthly paradise, with artificial lakes, a golf course, a
church and a schoolhouse. Eventually the executive, George
McKenzie, built seven lesser estates for his relatives. One now
houses the Ukrainian resort.
BUFFALO, N.Y. For the first time in their 24-year history, the
Washington Capitals are going to the Stanley Cup finals. They
earned their berth Thursday night by beating the Buffalo Sabres by
3-2 in overtime to clinch the Eastern Conference finals, 4 games to
2.
Washington's Joe Juneau scored the winning goal at 6 minutes 24
seconds of overtime when he charged toward the crease and knocked a
loose puck over the goal line after Buffalo goalie Dominic Hasek
failed to cover it. The play was fashioned by Brian Bellows of the
Capitals, who stickhandled around the defense on the left side and
fired the first shot against Hasek. Hasek was sprawled in his
crease and reaching with the glove on his left hand when Juneau
knocked it in.
The Capitals will face either Detroit or Dallas in the
championship round, which will begin Tuesday night in the arena of
the Western Conference winner. The defeat ended the brilliant
season of Dominik Hasek, the Buffalo goalie who led the Czech
Republic to the gold medal in the Olympic Games last February.
Although Hasek and his teammates are through for the season,
Hasek is a finalist for both the Hart and Vezina trophies, given to
the league's most valuable player and its best goalie. Despite
Hasek's great efforts this season, the Capitals are also led by a
good goalie: Olaf Kolzig. Born in South Africa, raised in several
places in Canada and an international player for Germany, Kolzig
has been, consistently, the best goalie remaining through the first
three rounds of the tournament.
The teams exchanged goals in the second and the third periods.
Playing in his first postseason game this spring, Paul Kruse of the
Sabres scored at 7 minutes 40 seconds of the third period to break
a 1-1 tie. After a long shot by defenseman Bob Boughner, Kruse and
his linemates charged and created congestion in front of Capitals
goalie Olaf Kolzig. The puck may have hit Kruse as it passed
through.
Washington evened it at 2-2 at 14:01 on a power-play goal by
Peter Bondra. Geoff Sanderson was in the penalty box for
interfering with Dale Hunter of the Capitals, a call that was
bitterly protested by the Sabres and their fans. Bondra, uncovered
in front of the net, knocked the puck past Dominik Hasek as the
goalie tried to scramble back into position, from left to right.
After playing a scoreless tie for more than 33 minutes, the
teams exchanged even-strength goals within a span of 22 seconds,
and the score stood at 1-1 going into the third period. Scoring for
Buffalo was Michael Peca, who slapped the puck past Kolzig at 13:04
after a pass from Dixon Ward. The goal finished a rush that formed
at the other end after Washington had maintained pressure for an
entire shift. The Capitals got the goal right back at 13:26 when
Esa Tikkanen, uncovered next to Hasek's crease, turned in a shot by
Mark Tinordi.
The Sabres came into the game with the momentum of a 2-1 victory
in Game 5 in which they were out-played and out-shot by 35-16. The
difference in that one was Hasek, who emerged from a mini-slump to
perform brilliantly in what may have been his most important and
impressive victory since he lead the Czech Republic to a gold medal
in the Winter Olympics in February.
The Final Four round, both East and West, has been a goalie
story. Except for Kolzig the netminding has been erratic and, in
some cases, below standard. In the West, where Detroit holds a
three-games-to-two edge over Dallas, Chris Osgood of the Wings and
Ed Belfour of the Stars have taken turns making major mistakes.
He redeemed himself in Game 5 while his young teammates were
being overwhelmed. That was not the case in the first period
Thursday night. It ended scoreless, but the Sabres had played
better and had a 16-10 edge in shots. Both coaches started their
muscle lines: Chris Simon, Hunter and Craig Berube for the
Capitals; Rob Ray, Kruse and Wayne Primeau for the Sabres.
This matchup could have led to fights in the regular season. But
in this important a game, it created only a few extra hard hits and
a couple of penalties. Kruse went off for roughing at 5:06. Hunter
got the same minor at 13:56.
NEW YORK The search for a head basketball coach at St. John's
plodded on Thursday with the school insisting that it has not given
up hope of hiring George Washington Coach Mike Jarvis, but also
making a move to secure a backup plan.
While St. John's officials have not made an offer or even a call
to Jarvis since meeting with him on Monday, an athletic department
official said Thursday that school lawyers were still hopeful that
a deal could be worked out.
While Jarvis may be the most qualified candidate, he is not the
only one under consideration. The official said that one of the
three other coaches who were interviewed last week will be brought
in for a second interview.
School officials would not confirm which of the three among
Siena's Paul Hewitt, Davidson's Bob McKillop and St. Bonaventure's
Jim Baron would be invited back, but according to one Division I
coach, it was believed to be Hewitt. Hewitt posted a 17-12 record
in his first season as a head coach after five seasons as an
assistant at Villanova.
Thursday marks four weeks since St. John's informed Fran
Fraschilla of its intention to dismiss him, and the school has yet
to make an offer to anyone. Despite speculation that Jarvis, who
met with Athletic Director Ed Manetta, the executive vice
president, Robert Crimmins, and the university president, the Rev.
Donald Harrington, would be the next coach, Jarvis' lawyer, Robert
Ades, said Thursday that there has been no word.
Jarvis would command more money than any of the other
candidates, but he also has the best credentials, including four
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament appearances in
eight seasons at George Washington, more than the other coaches
combined.
Jarvis earned $600,000 last year and still has four years left
on his contract. His salary demands would be in the range of
$800,000 per year, although Ades insisted that numbers were never
discussed with St. John's.
According to a person familiar with the situation, St. John's
believes it could bring in any of the other three coaches for
between $300,000 and $350,000 per year, less than it was paying
Fraschilla, who earned $450,000.
The Michelangelo David at the front entrance of Caesar's Palace
attracts hordes every day, but is faux. So do the white tigers in
the lobby of the Mirage next door and they, to be sure, are real.
And so, by the way, are the seven Picassos hanging in the same
hotel's top restaurant, Melange. Tap one with your butter knife and
watch how fast the security goons rush in.
The word is out, and it may make you shudder. Las Vegas, the
world capital of temptation and tat, is branching out.
To the familiar sinner's brew of roulette, one-armed bandits and
fast-as-you-like wedding ceremonies, add a new, altogether
unexpected ingredient: fine art and never-before-seen antiquities.
When it opens in October, the Bellagio, conceived by Steve Wynn,
the American gaming tycoon and owner of the Mirage, will be more
than just the latest word in architectural excess, though it has
enough of that.
Meant to evoke the villas of northern Italy, it has its own
mini-Lake Como lapping the Strip, quivering cypress trees and 1,100
tinkling fountains.
In November, the screamingly brash Rio All-Suites and Casino,
just off the Strip, will open its doors to the largest exhibition
of Romanov Dynasty treasures ever to leave the Peterhof
Reserve-Museum in Russia.
For six months, Wedgewood dinner services, a Faberge egg and the
throne of Peter the Great will be among more than 1,000 pieces
displayed in a series of rooms being built in the Casino to
recreate, down to the last detail, the salons and galleries of the
Peterhof itself.
The hard-to-imagine joining of hands between the Rio and the
Peterhof was marked Sunday by an equally unlikely ceremony in St.
Petersburg.
No one, however, is likely to rival Wynn, who has surfaced as
the most important art buyer in the world. He personally, and the
Mirage company he heads, have spent almost $300 million on art in
just a few months.
Among his acquisitions, some of which now decorate the Mirage
awaiting the completion of Bellagio, is Edgar Degas's `Dancer
Taking her Bow' (bought for $12 million), Picasso's `Seated Woman'
($1.65 million) and Alberto Giacometti's `Pointing Man' ($7.35
million).
In March, he paid $50 million for seven contemporary pieces by
artists such as Jasper Johns, Willem de Kooning, Lichtenstein and
Cy Twombly.
David Nash, a former Sotheby's auctioneer and now a leading
dealer in New York, sees in Steve Wynn the same appetites displayed
by very wealthy men before him.
After some of the company's shareholders began to get restless
earlier this year, Wynn sold some of his shares in Mirage and began
to buy on his own account. He will lease back the pictures he has
bought to the Bellagio for display.
And then there is the question: can vulgar Vegas appreciate what
it is getting? Even to ask it raises the hackles of Alan Feldman, a
spokesman for Wynn, who instantly detects elitism and snobbery.
Lee Cagley, who is heading the design team recreating the
Peterhof at the Rio, believes he sees, meanwhile, a broad maturing
both of the city and of the punters coming to play in it.
Probably, though, only a tiny fraction of the punters will
notice the new rarification of the desert air.
Andrew, a waiter at Melange, calculates that the Picassos inside
go completely unnoticed by about half of the diners who come in.
And usually he does not disturb their ignorance.
It's probably just as well, given how many of today's
well-heeled sportsmen trample all over propriety. But all decency
is not lost. John Elway has spent the past two decades proving it's
possible to nimbly sidestep the cracks in the gold-paved road that
swallow up many a superstar athlete.
On Thursday the Denver Broncos quarterback retraced his
footsteps all the way back to his beginnings. The football field at
Granada Hills High, where Elway engineered the first of his fabled
comebacks, was renamed John Elway Stadium in a ceremony that
celebrated the goodwill and goodness of the greatest athlete the
school has produced.
The assemblage that honored the future Hall of Famer included
teachers who knew Elway when he was a football and baseball prodigy
for the Highlanders in the late 1970s, teammates who were sure
Elway would forget them once fame and fortune found him, and an
entire student body that wasn't yet born (or was barely so) when
Elway matriculated with honors in 1979 and moved on to Stanford.
In the time it has taken the Granada Hills High Class of 1998 to
go from diapers to diplomas, Elway has finished second in the
Heisman Trophy balloting, to Herschel Walker in 1982, earned an
undergraduate degree in economics, played for the New York Yankees'
Single-A team, been named to six Pro Bowls, played in four Super
Bowls and engineered 45 come-from-behind game-winning drives. The
most recent of those drives, in January, produced his first Super
Bowl win, over the defending champion Green Bay Packers.
He married his college sweetheart, fathered four children and
became the favorite son of an entire football-crazed state. But he
remained grounded even as his profile soared. A regular at the
Highlanders' annual alumni baseball game, Elway also has kept in
close touch with the friends he had made while playing prep
football.
The feeling apparently was mutual for some 50 former teammates
who honored Elway with their presence Thursday. He firmly
demonstrated where his priorities stood, turning down David
Letterman, who wanted him to do a stand-up spot after the ceremony
for Letterman's late-night telecast, so he could spend the time
catching up with his longtime friends before catching a flight back
to Denver with his pint-sized sidekick, his 8-year-old son Jack.
Elway was the seventh speaker fitting since that's his jersey
number and he delivered the verbal equivalent of a long touchdown
spiral, his inspirational message connecting with most of his
audience. Sadly, there was a section of students in the bleachers
to his right who seemed far more interested in hearing themselves
talk than Elway.
Those with the good manners and good sense to listen were
treated to Elway's prescription for success: Be humble; seize every
opportunity; persevere and identify what it is you do best and do
it to the best of your abilities.
A more eloquent earful no senior can hope to get from any
commencement speaker this or any spring.
Elway's net worth extends into nine figures, but money isn't
what makes this man. Someone driven by the bottom line would have
no reason to place the occasional long-distance call of
encouragement to football players at his old high school, always on
his own dime and time.
He wouldn't think of making a long day longer by showing up
early to the gymnasium on the day he was being honored to address a
group of football players with whom he shares only a legacy.
Someone driven by the bottom line wouldn't dream of standing in
a stuffy gymnasium at 9 in the morning, sleep still in his eyes,
patiently and pleasantly signing every last autograph and posing
for every last picture, obliging many of the faculty members who
had just gotten through telling their students not to pester him
for autographs or pictures.
And someone driven by the bottom line certainly wouldn't hold
the admiration of two sophomores who are vying to be the next in a
long line of storied Highlanders quarterbacks.
Elway, looking at himself through the same lens in which all his
teen-age insecurities once were filtered, doesn't think much has
changed in 20 years, except for his hairline.
The Michelangelo David at the front entrance of Caesar's Palace
attracts hordes every day, but is faux. So do the white tigers in
the lobby of the Mirage next door and they, to be sure, are real.
And so, by the way, are the seven Picassos hanging in the same
hotel's top restaurant, Melange. Tap one with your butter knife and
watch how fast the security goons rush in.
The word is out, and it may make you shudder. Las Vegas, the
world capital of temptation and tat, is branching out.
To the familiar sinner's brew of roulette, one-armed bandits and
fast-as-you-like wedding ceremonies, add a new, altogether
unexpected ingredient: fine art and never-before-seen antiquities.
When it opens in October, the Bellagio, conceived by Steve Wynn,
the American gaming tycoon and owner of the Mirage, will be more
than just the latest word in architectural excess, though it has
enough of that.
Meant to evoke the villas of northern Italy, it has its own
mini-Lake Como lapping the Strip, quivering cypress trees and 1,100
tinkling fountains.
In November, the screamingly brash Rio All-Suites and Casino,
just off the Strip, will open its doors to the largest exhibition
of Romanov Dynasty treasures ever to leave the Peterhof
Reserve-Museum in Russia.
For six months, Wedgewood dinner services, a Faberge egg and the
throne of Peter the Great will be among more than 1,000 pieces
displayed in a series of rooms being built in the Casino to
recreate, down to the last detail, the salons and galleries of the
Peterhof itself.
The hard-to-imagine joining of hands between the Rio and the
Peterhof was marked Sunday by an equally unlikely ceremony in St.
Petersburg.
No one, however, is likely to rival Wynn, who has surfaced as
the most important art buyer in the world. He personally, and the
Mirage company he heads, have spent almost $300 million on art in
just a few months.
Among his acquisitions, some of which now decorate the Mirage
awaiting the completion of Bellagio, is Edgar Degas's `Dancer
Taking her Bow' (bought for $12 million), Picasso's `Seated Woman'
($1.65 million) and Alberto Giacometti's `Pointing Man' ($7.35
million).
In March, he paid $50 million for seven contemporary pieces by
artists such as Jasper Johns, Willem de Kooning, Lichtenstein and
Cy Twombly.
David Nash, a former Sotheby's auctioneer and now a leading
dealer in New York, sees in Steve Wynn the same appetites displayed
by very wealthy men before him.
After some of the company's shareholders began to get restless
earlier this year, Wynn sold some of his shares in Mirage and began
to buy on his own account. He will lease back the pictures he has
bought to the Bellagio for display.
And then there is the question: can vulgar Vegas appreciate what
it is getting? Even to ask it raises the hackles of Alan Feldman, a
spokesman for Wynn, who instantly detects elitism and snobbery.
Lee Cagley, who is heading the design team recreating the
Peterhof at the Rio, believes he sees, meanwhile, a broad maturing
both of the city and of the punters coming to play in it.
Probably, though, only a tiny fraction of the punters will
notice the new rarification of the desert air.
Andrew, a waiter at Melange, calculates that the Picassos inside
go completely unnoticed by about half of the diners who come in.
And usually he does not disturb their ignorance.
NEW YORK Deepening the dissension at the Taxi and Limousine
Commission over Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's strict new taxi rules, two
commission members filed affidavits Thursday supporting a suit by
fleet owners against the commission and the mayor.
The suit itself challenges only a rule authorizing liveries to
pick up street fares during taxi strikes. The commissioners,
Alberto Torres and Elias Arout, swore that the rule they approved at a May 13 meeting that itself may have been in violation of the
state's open-meeting law was far narrower than the one the city
says was approved.
But the affidavits by sitting commissioners against their own
agency add considerably to the disarray surrounding the mayor's
attempts to win approval for his 17-point package of new safety
rules, two of which have yet to be voted on. And the commissioners'
statements parallel comments they have made questioning the
legality of another closed-door commission meeting, held just
before the vote on the bulk of the mayor's rules.
This week, more than half of the eight commission members said
they were having second thoughts about one rule they approved,
making it much easier to suspend cabbies' licenses. These comments
may be significant, because five votes are needed to pass, amend or
rescind any rules. The commissioners have not yet voted on rules
lowering the threshold for license suspensions and requiring all
yellow cab owners to post a $100,000 insurance bond.
The affidavits and the lawsuit take issue with a rule that was
enacted the day the city's cabbies stayed home to protest the
mayor's proposals. The rule allows the taxi commission to authorize
car services and commuter vans to pick up passengers who hail them
in the street during work stoppages by yellow cabs.
The group filing the suits, the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of
Trade, represents the owners of 2,000 yellow cabs. The group says
that actions by the taxi commission and the Giuliani administration
have been rife with secrecy and impropriety.
To begin with, the group's lawyers say, the May 13 meeting,
which was never announced publicly, was in violation of the
open-meetings law, which requires that all meetings of public
bodies be announced as far in advance as practical and made open to
the public.
But beyond that, Arout and Torres said in their affidavits, the
rule approved by the commission allows liveries only to take people
to and from the airports, and only on the day of the meeting. Two
other commissioners have given similar accounts of what took place
at the meeting.
There is no way to verify what actually took place. The city
said in court papers filed Thursday that there were no minutes
taken at the meeting, which is also in conflict with the
open-meetings act. The livery cab rule itself was not drafted until
the day after the meeting. And the commission would not say
Thursday which members had voted for the rule.
Arout said Thursday that he never would have voted for a law
allowing liveries to compete with medallion cabs. While he said he
sympathized with the complaints from both the yellow-cab and livery
industries about the onerousness of the mayor's rules, he said he
filed his affidavit simply to set the record straight.
Torres has said he voiced doubts to the commission's lawyer,
Matthew Daus, as to whether the meeting and the vote were legal,
but that Daus assured him they were.
Gene Russianoff, senior attorney for the New York Public
Interest Research Group, said that it was highly unusual for
members of government agencies to file affidavits challenging their
own rules.
Freeman said that taken together with an hourlong closed-door
meeting on May 28 just before the panel approved 15 of the 17
points of Giuliani's plan, the commission's behavior represented a
disturbing pattern.
WASHINGTON They call them the Righteous Brothers. James
Dobson, Gary Bauer and John Ashcroft are the vanguard of a new
conservative Christian movement that is marching on Washington.
Social conservatives feel that the Republican Party has taken
them for granted, led them down the garden path and given nothing
back in return.
They want an end to abortion, gay rights and gun control, and
their demands are causing uproar in the party as America gears up
for elections.
Dobson, 62, is a broadcaster based in Colorado Springs, Colo.
Bauer, 51, a former Reagan Administration official, heads the
Family Research Council. Ashcroft, 56, is a senator from Missouri.
They are the heirs to a tradition of religious conservatism in
America that helped keep Ronald Reagan in office for eight years.
But they feel that the party Reagan included scorned them,
refusing to adopt their key demands, and that the Republican
party's candidate in the 1996 Presidential race, Robert Dole,
betrayed the cause.
It intersects with the political universe when candidates are
being nominated, and small groups of highly motivated individuals
can be very influential.
The Righteous Brothers have money, and they have an audience.
Bauer's Political Action Committee, the Campaign for Working
Families, has raised $3.7 million in contributions in a year.
Nearly 6 million people listen to Dobson's radio show every day;
millions more have bought his books.
But what has made them important is, in some ways, the weakness
of the conservative Christian leadership. Pat Robertson, its star
in the 1980s, has been in eclipse for years. His Christian
Coalition, once the moving force behind the religious right, lost
influence and became regarded by many as too willing to compromise.
Dobson and his Focus on the Family have moved into the vacuum,
with a brisk, family-oriented, authoritarian moralism.
He first made his name with the charmingly-titled Dare to
Discipline, a child-rearing guide for the tough of mind and hard of
hand. And it is discipline which he wants to bring back to the
Republican Party: the smack of firm government.
At a series of bad-tempered meetings earlier this year, Dobson
publicly threatened to pull away from the Republican Party
altogether unless it started adopting his agenda.
The Republicans have had to listen: since his demarche, the
quixotic party leader in the House of Representatives, Newt
Gingrich, has veered towards the trio's positions and taken a much
harder stand on morality questions.
Influence behind the scenes is not enough, however: Bauer and
Ashcroft have both started to sound out the prospects of a
presidential candidacy in 2000.
Senator Ashcroft, with plenty of on-the-stump experience, is
more likely, and could be one of three or four Republicans with a
serious shot at the nomination.
But his righteous partners are already having a political
impact, backing candidates in Republican primaries for this year's
Congressional races with their words and their cash, which in turn
has triggered conflicts among different factions within the party.
The economy is booming and President Bill Clinton is as popular
as ever, but the Republicans could still have expected a good
showing in November's elections.
The religious right, however, is causing near-civil war in some
of their key campaigns. While the Dobson and Bauer candidates have
not been that successful, they have driven wedges into cracks that
were already opening up within the Right.
Their most notable victory was a primary for a special
Congressional election in California, where their candidate beat a
moderate for the Republican nomination, only to be trounced later
by the Democrat. Ironically, Reagan's home is in the district.
The social conservatives in the Republican Party are finding it
increasingly hard to get on with the economic conservatives, and
the historic marriage which Reagan helped to forge between them and
the moderates is on the rocks.
Bauer and Dobson in particular are less interested in the free
market than in morality, and have sparked angry words from the
other side.
WASHINGTON They call them the Righteous Brothers. James
Dobson, Gary Bauer and John Ashcroft are the vanguard of a new
conservative Christian movement that is marching on Washington.
Social conservatives feel that the Republican Party has taken
them for granted, led them down the garden path and given nothing
back in return.
They want an end to abortion, gay rights and gun control, and
their demands are causing uproar in the party as America gears up
for elections.
Dobson, 62, is a broadcaster based in Colorado Springs, Colo.
Bauer, 51, a former Reagan Administration official, heads the
Family Research Council. Ashcroft, 56, is a senator from Missouri.
They are the heirs to a tradition of religious conservatism in
America that helped keep Ronald Reagan in office for eight years.
But they feel that the party Reagan included scorned them,
refusing to adopt their key demands, and that the Republican
party's candidate in the 1996 Presidential race, Robert Dole,
betrayed the cause.
It intersects with the political universe when candidates are
being nominated, and small groups of highly motivated individuals
can be very influential.
The Righteous Brothers have money, and they have an audience.
Bauer's Political Action Committee, the Campaign for Working
Families, has raised $3.7 million in contributions in a year.
Nearly 6 million people listen to Dobson's radio show every day;
millions more have bought his books.
But what has made them important is, in some ways, the weakness
of the conservative Christian leadership. Pat Robertson, its star
in the 1980s, has been in eclipse for years. His Christian
Coalition, once the moving force behind the religious right, lost
influence and became regarded by many as too willing to compromise.
Dobson and his Focus on the Family have moved into the vacuum,
with a brisk, family-oriented, authoritarian moralism.
He first made his name with the charmingly-titled Dare to
Discipline, a child-rearing guide for the tough of mind and hard of
hand. And it is discipline which he wants to bring back to the
Republican Party: the smack of firm government.
At a series of bad-tempered meetings earlier this year, Dobson
publicly threatened to pull away from the Republican Party
altogether unless it started adopting his agenda.
The Republicans have had to listen: since his demarche, the
quixotic party leader in the House of Representatives, Newt
Gingrich, has veered towards the trio's positions and taken a much
harder stand on morality questions.
Influence behind the scenes is not enough, however: Bauer and
Ashcroft have both started to sound out the prospects of a
presidential candidacy in 2000.
Senator Ashcroft, with plenty of on-the-stump experience, is
more likely, and could be one of three or four Republicans with a
serious shot at the nomination.
But his righteous partners are already having a political
impact, backing candidates in Republican primaries for this year's
Congressional races with their words and their cash, which in turn
has triggered conflicts among different factions within the party.
The economy is booming and President Bill Clinton is as popular
as ever, but the Republicans could still have expected a good
showing in November's elections.
The religious right, however, is causing near-civil war in some
of their key campaigns. While the Dobson and Bauer candidates have
not been that successful, they have driven wedges into cracks that
were already opening up within the Right.
Their most notable victory was a primary for a special
Congressional election in California, where their candidate beat a
moderate for the Republican nomination, only to be trounced later
by the Democrat. Ironically, Reagan's home is in the district.
The social conservatives in the Republican Party are finding it
increasingly hard to get on with the economic conservatives, and
the historic marriage which Reagan helped to forge between them and
the moderates is on the rocks.
Bauer and Dobson in particular are less interested in the free
market than in morality, and have sparked angry words from the
other side.
 c. 1998, Houston Chronicle PARIS This was the year, Lindsay Davenport promised herself. This
was the year she would get stronger, faster and meaner. She would
lose weight and acquire an attitude.
No more Miss Nice Girl, Lindsay said, gritting her teeth and
snarling. She would light a fire in her belly, and shrink same a
bit. She would focus her appetite on winning championships, not her
next meal.
Davenport botched a grand opportunity in the French Open
semifinals Thursday, although her opponent, Arantxa Sanchez
Vicario, a fast-fading clay-court diva in recent months, knows
Court Central at Roland Garros as well as anybody on the women's
tour. The tenacious little Spaniard, a two-time winner here, always
has been as gritty as the clay under her feet, the antithesis of
Madam Davenport.
But Lindsay is improving. Formerly soft and gawky, and weak
mentally, she has at once slimmed down and grown into her 6-3
frame. Through a hellish training regimen and the normal maturing
process, she has become enough of a force to have risen, albeit
quietly, to No. 2 in the world rankings at the age of 21.
For now, for at least until the Williams posse reaches full
tennis flower, Davenport can stand tall proudly, literally and
figuratively, as the best American-born player going. (As of later
Thursday afternoon, it became painfully clear who the top American
player, period, is once again.)
Davenport is also the reigning Olympic champion, having beaten
Sanchez Vicario for the gold medal in Atlanta in 1996. They never
can take that away from her. Nonetheless, she's still too slow and
too nice, if no longer too, uh, chubby.
Sanchez Vicario exploited Davenport's weaknesses on both fronts,
winning 6-3, 7-6 (7-5) in a mistake-filled 94-minute match that
featured twice as many dreadful moments as delightful ones. If
Monica Seles' return to the Roland Garros final was a tour de
force, the Sanchez Vicario-Davenport undercard was more of a tour
de farce.
Had Davenport's match gone on second, though, she might have
drawn inspiration from the whupping Seles put on top-ranked and
top-seeded Martina Hingis. Seles, whose own post-stabbing battle of
the bulge has been excruciatingly chronicled, knocked every bit of
swagger from the self-confident countenance of the 17-year-old
Swiss phenom in arguably the most satisfying victory of her
tragically split career.
Lindsay has endured a lot, to be sure the constant harping on
her weight and appearance, plus her parents' hurtful divorce. But
her travails are almost trivial by comparison to what Seles has
been through. If Seles can regain the level of excellence to which
she ascended in stomping Hingis, Davenport surely can raise her
personal standards several notches as well.
They're good friends, Monica and Lindsay. After Thursday, some
of the former is bound to rub off on the latter.
Lindsay was done in by that unabated flood of errant shots 56
unforced errors, according to the stat sheet and her maddening
inability to use her bigger serve to any kind of advantage. If
anything, she was better off trying to return, seeing as how her
service breaks of Sanchez Vicario outnumbered her own holds by a
7-2 margin.
Amazingly, she lost eight of 10 service games, facing a break
point in nine of them and trailing in every one. She would lose 64
percent of the points she served. Even at Roland Garros, where the
terre battue is the greatest of equalizers, that's ridiculous.
Sanchez Vicario held, winning a game point on which Davenport
seemingly swatted at least three clear-cut winners, only to have
Arantxa, her short legs churning, chase each of them down.
So the Spaniard advances to her sixth Roland Garros final, and
Lindsay goes home. Perhaps Wimbledon can be different. Grass is, in
theory, a more suitable surface for her, and for a change, she
needn't be in a hurry to forget Paris.
Not even Steffi Graf. Now, Hingis might, but she has a ways to
go, and she got no closer Thursday, suffering a 6-3, 6-2 throwback
thumping in the French Open semifinals from the born-again Seles.
They first met in Zurich, Switzerland, in 1989, Seles and
Hingis. The bubbly, disarming teen from Yugoslavia took a picture
with the child who shared her tennis dreams. Their paths didn't
cross again until Hingis, a sassy 16 with the No. 1 ranking in her
cross hairs, humiliated Seles on a tennis court.
Seles missed more than two years after Gunther Parche, a
deranged German, plunged a knife into her back during the
changeover of a match in Hamburg in April 1993. And when she did
return physically, her killer game didn't automatically follow.
When it appeared it might, when her body and psyche were almost
well, she would be confronted by the cancer in her father's
stomach. Karolj Seles died May 14, less than two weeks before the
French Open. Seles wasn't sure if she should come to Paris. She
didn't hit a ball for 12 days.
But in her grief, she decided to play, to honor Karolj's memory.
And now, she's in the final, having beaten the top-seeded Hingis at
her own game.
So Thursday, saddened but in a strange way finally unburdened,
Seles was free to be Seles again, the Monica who won three times in
a row at Roland Garros from 1990 through 1992, a feat unprecedented
in tennis' modern age. Or any age since the 1930s.
Hingis hadn't met this Seles, not on a tennis court, anyway. The
Swiss miss didn't know the lady who was taking Hingis' best shots
and returning them with the same accuracy and twice the heat.
She had heard about this Seles, to be sure, but she couldn't
have known her. Hingis tried to put up a brave, happy front
afterward, but she wore a dazed and distant face.
Nobody beats Hingis like that. Nobody. Except somebody just had.
Hingis was, for an afternoon, a little kid again, being spanked by
an elder.
Was she surprised by the fearless, unmitigated fury of the
two-fisted, single-minded, way-it-used-to-be Seles attack?
Could be. Her opponent in Saturday's final, fourth seed Arantxa
Sanchez Vicario, won their most recent meeting in the Chase
Championships last fall, but Seles had taken 14 of the previous 15.
Sanchez Vicario, having defeated second-seeded Lindsay Davenport
6-3, 7-6 (7-5) in their semifinal, understands only too well what
she's in for.
It remains the only Grand Slam she hasn't won, although she
doesn't turn 18 until late September. She was beaten in the French
Open final a year ago by fellow teen Iva Majoli, but that defeat
followed a long rehabilitation from arthroscopic knee surgery
necessitated by a fall from a horse. She was fine this day.
Just overmatched. The one time Hingis made a move, breaking to
start the second set, Seles promptly broke back at 15-40, forcing
Hingis into an unusually timid net error.
Lots of them. Except Seles, 24, is a force to be reckoned with,
and that changes the coronation equation.
The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.
ALBANIA-KOSOVO (Padesh, Albania) President Slobodan Milosevic
of Yugoslavia has unleashed the largest military operation in the
Balkans since the end of the war in Bosnia, driving thousands of
ethnic Albanians from the border area with Albania and reducing
their villages to rubble. By Chris Hedges.
SCI-NEUTRINOS (Kamiokande, Japan) In a finding with immense
implications for physics and cosmology, a team of American,
Japanese and other physicists running an underground, underwater
laboratory here announced Thursday that they have evidence that the
neutrino, a subatomic particle, has mass. By Malcolm W. Browne.
TWA-CRASH-DISPOSAL (Washington) National Transportation Safety
Board this weekend begins the tough job of disposing of personal
effects of passengers from the TWA 800 crash, including teddy
bears, hairpieces and blue jeans. By Matthew L. Wald.
OLDER-WOMEN-DRUGS (Undated) Abuse of alcohol and prescription
drugs by older women is a hidden epidemic costing the country $30
billion a year in health care, according to a major study released
o Thursday and separate interviews with women as old as 88 years
who became addicted in California, Minnesota, Florida and New York.
By Christopher S. Wren.
NY-NAZI-SUSPECT (Glen Spey, N.Y.) In this tiny hamlet where
about a quarter of the residents are elderly Ukrainians, the few
people who knew Dmytro Sawczuk were more sympathetic then alarmed
about the news that the federal government had moved to revoke his
citizenship because he apparently lied about his Nazi past when he
immigrated to this country 50 years ago. By Jane Gross.
SENATE-BANKING (Undated) The proposal to rewrite the banking
laws is finally moving to the Senate. Although its chances of
approval are still slim, they are increasing, as a group of Wall
Street's top executives found during a recent trip to Washington.
By Leslie Wayne.
TECH-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Even as more and more corporate
managers warned investors that their second-quarter results were
looking grim, investors piled into the stock market. And they piled
most heavily into those companies most vulnerable to near-term
earnings disappointment the technology group. By Gretchen
Morgenson.
RAC-ARATON-COLUMN (New York) Sports of The Times on the
Belmont Stakes and Real Quiet, and how he'll be viewed if he wins
the Triple Crown. By Harvey Araton.
BROADWAY-TONYS (New York) The 1997-1998 Broadway season comes
to an official close on Sunday night when the 52d annual Tony
Awards honoring artistic and technical achievement on the Broadway
stage are handed out during a live television broadcast at Radio
City Music Hall with Rosie O'Donnell presiding. By Rick Lyman.
PA-SCHUYLKILL-OHARA (Pottsville, Pa.) For a fleeting moment,
you are Julian English and the road is yours, roaring in a sleek
Caddie through scenic highways of fact and fiction, past coal patch
taverns and slatty wood houses, gin cocktail parties and country
clubs vibrating to the tunes of Tommy Lake's Royal Collegians. The
terrain is Schuylkill County, the shovel-shaped anthracite coal
region of eastern Pennsylvania, which is barely disguised in the
plentiful short stories and novels of John O'Hara.
He has piercing brown eyes that could make her forget Jeff
Gordon and a smile that would give a milk mustache an R rating.
He has an A.J. Foyt kind of swagger and driving ability that
transcends debates about open wheels and fenders.
He has a 1997 Indy Racing League championship for Team Menard
tucked under his arm, and he's walking away from it all.
He was its matinee idol, the young American driver that the
league, in its third season, wanted to promote and nurture and
showcase in its centerpiece race, the Indianapolis 500.
Imagine Gordon defecting to the Championship Auto Racing Teams
series virtually ripping the sweet heart out of NASCAR. That's
what Stewart's departure from this fledgling league is being
compared with, but it's not entirely an honest comparison.
After winning 1995 U.S. Auto Club titles in sprint, midget and
Silver Crown divisions, Stewart signed a three-year deal with Harry
Ranier's NASCAR Busch Grand National team that November. The next
January, his agent negotiated a deal with John Menard to give
Stewart a ride in the Indy Racing League.
He hasn't so much outgrown the league as he was spirited away
from it: Joe Gibbs bought Ranier's team and agreed to allow Stewart
to focus on IRL this year while racing BGN on off-weekends with the
intent of moving him up to Winston Cup next season.
Buhl and teammate J.J. Yeley, 21, don't see Stewart's departure
as the death knell for the league pointing to up-and-comers like
Foyt-protege Billy Boat. Nor do they see it as a permanent
abandonment.
After finishing second last season at Indianapolis, engine
problems handed Stewart a last-place finish two weeks ago. Hoping
to emulate his idol, Foyt, Stewart longs to win Winston Cup's
Daytona 500 and the IRL's Indy 500 before his career is through.
Gibbs has consented to letting him drive in the Indy 500.
Dedicated to Winston Cup's 33-date calendar, Stewart's swinging
schedule of racing two and three nights a week with midget cars,
BGN or IRL will stop, Gibbs has said, somewhat to Stewart's
chagrin.
As he says this, his name is atop the IRL points standings, and
yesterday at Texas Motor Speedway, Stewart pushed his neon yellow
Glidden Menards Special to a top speed of 223 mph in practice.
He smiles a smile that could sell a thousand cans of paint or
boxes of cereal. This chapter's not over. There's work to be done
this weekend.
The publicity has become white-hot and largely fawning, the kind
that a certain giant lizard couldn't buy with millions of dollars
of advertising earlier this year.
Reviewers have been ecstatic about the tale of Truman Burbank,
and Carrey's elastic mug has been on the covers of Time and
Entertainment Weekly magazines just in time to generate even more
interest.
The publicity has become white-hot and largely fawning, the kind
that a certain giant lizard couldn't buy with millions of dollars
of advertising earlier this year.
Reviewers have been ecstatic about the tale of Truman Burbank,
and Carrey's elastic mug has been on the covers of Time and
Entertainment Weekly magazines just in time to generate even more
interest.
LOS ANGELES -- Ronald Perelman, one of America's richest men,
completed his $600 million takeover of Panavision, the world leader
in supplying cameras to the motion-picture industry.
The deal, first announced in December, was approved Thursday at
a special shareholders meeting in New York City and leaves Perelman
with a 72 percent holding in Panavision -- the same level held by
venture-fund manager Warburg Pincus Capital, which had owned
Panavision for a decade.
Perelman has a fortune worth an estimated $6.5 billion and
controls Revlon, Consolidated Cigar, California Federal Bank and
Coleman. He has promised to increase Panavision's sales and retain
senior management, but has given no details yet.
The company, which employs 300 people at its suburban Woodland
Hills headquarters and 800 overall, earned $3.5 million on revenues
of $43.2 million in the first quarter. It produces about 80 cameras
annually, leasing them to studios and producers through rental
agents, and dwarfs rivals Arriflex and Moviecam with a market share
estimated at 90 percent.
Perelman's deal provided no premium to shareholders, but offered
a debt recapitalization and other investments worth $150 million.
The transaction cut ownership of publicly held shares to 10 percent
from 19.5 percent, with Warburg and its managers owning the
remaining 18 percent.
LOS ANGELES A frustrating and disappointing month in
Indianapolis came to a bitter end for Chatsworth High product Mike
Groff this week.
After struggling to qualify and then finishing 15th in the
Indianapolis 500 17 laps behind winner Eddie Cheever Jr. Groff
was replaced as driver of the Jonathan Byrd/Cunningham Racing No.10
G Force Aurora, a car he felt was badly outclassed at Indy.
Groff said he felt the owners and crew chief blamed him for his
car's poor performance even though for the first few races of 1997,
he had the team in first place in IRL season points. But the real
problem, Groff said, was with the equipment.
In the race, Groff said his car's top speed was around 205 mph,
while other drivers were hitting the 220s and lapping him
repeatedly.
Groff said the problem was mechanical and the result of using
outmoded equipment as the owners tried to keep costs down.
So instead of putting money into making the car faster, Groff
feels, his team chose to blame the driver.
Groff several times told Byrd there was one way to find out if
he was the problem: Put another driver in the car. Twice before
Byrd took him up on the offer, bringing an outsider for testing.
This time, he's brought in Paul permanently.
That's OK with Groff, who is tied for 11th with Billy Boat in
season points with 56.
The Milwaukee race was Shafer's first with MCI after signing on
with it earlier this spring as a part-time driver.
Tach it up: For 25 years, Lions Drag Strip roared on weekends
with sounds of souped up engines. Those who remember those days
fondly are holding a reunion this weekend at the Carson Community
Center, 3 Civic Plaza Drive, in Carson.
A variety of vintage cars and other memorabilia from the strip,
which closed in 1972, will be displayed. Also on hand will be NHRA
funny car driver Gary Densham.
End of the string: Granada Hills' M.K. Kanke couldn't overcome a
poor starting position and finished sixth at Saturday's NASCAR
Featherlite Southwest Tour Colorado 125. His winning streak thus
was stopped at two.
Baja-bound: More than 200 off-road racers are expected in
Ensenada, Mexico, this weekend to run the SCORE Baja 500 Desert
Race. One of the marquee events of the SCORE season, the race draws
the top names in off-road racing, including nine-time overall
champion Ivan Stewart.
Drivers will run in 23 classes, 16 for cars and trucks, seven
for motorcycles and all-terrain vehicles.
Mighty midgets: Simi Valley's Rick Hendrix won a 30-lap showdown
at Tucson Raceway Park last weekend and continues to lead the USAC
Western States Midget standings. Simi Valley neighbor Alex Harris
continued his domination of the three-quarter midget ranks, winning
at Perris Auto Speedway.
Nuts and bolts: In just three years, Italy's Alex Zanardi has
become the dominant figure in CART racing. In 38 starts he has 10
poles and 10 victories. In his past 13 races, he has been in the
top three 11 times.... The IRL will run twice at Texas Motor
Speedway this year. The two events, Saturday night's True Value 500
and Sept. 20's Longhorn 500, have been dubbed the Texas Two-Step
Championship with an extra $100,000 going to the driver with the
most combined points.
TAKAYAMA, Japan In what colleagues hailed as a historic
landmark, 120 physicists from 23 research institutions in Japan and
the United States announced on Friday that they had found the
existence of mass in a notoriously elusive subatomic particle
called the neutrino.
The neutrino, a particle that carries no electric charge, is so
light that it was assumed for many years to have no mass at all.
After Friday's announcement, cosmologists will have to confront the
possibility that much of the mass of the universe is in the form of
neutrinos. The discovery will also compel scientists to revise a
highly successful theory of the composition of matter known as the
Standard Model.
Word of the discovery had drawn some 300 physicists here to
discuss neutrino research. Among other things, they said, the
finding of neutrino mass might affect theories about the formation
and evolution of galaxies and the ultimate fate of the universe. If
neutrinos have sufficient mass, their presence throughout the
universe would increase the overall mass of the universe, possibly
slowing its present expansion.
Others said the newly detected but as yet unmeasured mass of the
neutrino must be too small to cause cosmological effects. But
whatever the case, there was general agreement here that the
discovery will have far-reaching consequences for the investigation
of the nature of matter.
Speaking for the collaboration of scientists who discovered the
existence of neutrino mass using a huge underground detector called
Super-Kamiokande, Dr. Takaaki Kajita of the Institute for Cosmic
Ray Research of Tokyo University said that all explanations for the
data collected by the detector except the existence of neutrino
mass had been essentially ruled out.
But because the elusive particles cannot be seen, the evidence
that they have mass is indirect.
Study of the neutrino particle has been glacially slow since its
existence was hypothesized in 1931 by the Austrian physicist
Wolfgang Pauli as a way to explain the mysterious loss of energy in
certain nuclear reactions. The particle was finally discovered in
1956 by two physicists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr.
Frederick Reines (who was awarded a Nobel Prize for the discovery)
and the late Dr. Clyde Cowan.
But understanding of the particle since then has been acquired
painfully slowly, because neutrinos have no electric charge and
rarely interact with any kind of matter. A neutrino so rarely
collides with an atom of ordinary matter that a typical neutrino
can easily penetrate a one-light-year thickness of lead some six
trillion miles without hindrance.
As the writer John Updike put it in a poem he wrote in 1960:
But once in a great while, a neutrino does hit an atom and the
resulting blast of nuclear debris supplies clues about the neutrino
itself. The debris generally includes many particles that can race
through water, mineral oil or even ice, sending out shock waves of
blue light. This light, called Cherenkov radiation, can be detected
by sensitive light sensors and measured.
During the past few decades, scientists have learned that matter
is made up of three distinct flavors or types. This means that
there are three flavors of neutrinos the electron neutrino
associated with the electron, the muon neutrinos, associated with
the muon particle, which is a kind of fat electron, and the tau
neutrino, associated with the tau particle, an even fatter relative
of the electron.
The Super-Kamiokande detector was built two years ago as a joint
Japanese-American experiment. It is essentially a water tank the
size of a large cathedral installed in a deep zinc mine one mile
inside a mountain 30 miles north of here. When neutrinos slice
through the tank, one of them occasionally makes its presence known
by colliding with an atom, which sends blue light through the water
to an array of detectors.
The enormous volume of water in the detector increased the
likelihood of neutrino impacts to the point at which the discovery
of neutrino mass became possible.
Physicists knew that different flavors of neutrinos constantly
arrive from the upper atmosphere and they have calculated that the
ratio between muon neutrinos and other flavors must have a certain
value. But over the years detectors found only about half the muon
neutrino predicted by theory.
The apparent shortage of muon neutrinos was explained by the
recent observations that led to Friday's announcement. The
physicists found that when neutrinos come from the sky directly
over the Super Kamiokande detector a relatively short distance the proportion of muon neutrinos among them was higher than among
the neutrinos coming up from beneath the detector after having
passed through the Earth.
The scientists reasoned that by traveling through the entire
Earth these neutrinos had had time to oscillate, probably many
times, between muon neutrinos and some other type, especially the
tau neutrino, and this accounts for the deficit seen in muon
neutrinos. (The tau neutrino has not yet been directly detected but
it must exist to make observations consistent.)
A related problem has to do with neutrinos produced by the
fusion process in the sun. This process, which merges the nuclei of
hydrogen atoms to form helium nuclei and energy, produces
neutrinos. Astrophysicists believe they understand the mechanism in
complete detail.
The trouble is that all the best detectors ever built find far
fewer neutrinos than should be present according to understanding
of the fusion reaction.
Scientists believe the anomaly can be explained by the
oscillation of detectable solar neutrinos into types that cannot be
detected by existing instruments. But no one has proven this
explanation.
The leader of the collaboration's University of Hawaii Group,
for example, Dr. John Learned, has also worked on an underwater
detection system in the Pacific Ocean off the Hawaiian coast (which
ran out of money before completion) and a project at the South Pole
where a neutrino detector had been buried under thousands of feet
of ice.
Another approach to penetrating the neutrino secrets involves
the use of particle accelerators capable of producing intense beams
of neutrinos. In two experiments currently being prepared, one in
Japan and the other at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in
Illinois, beams of neutrinos will be directed through the Earth
toward detectors several hundred miles away. The goal will be to
observe changes the neutrinos undergo in transit, both in numbers
and types. Physicists expect the experiment to confirm the
existence of neutrino oscillations like those seen in the
Super-Kamiokande detector.
Although the neutrinos are now known to have some mass, most
physicists agree that the mass must be very small. The
Super-Kamiokande experiments suggest that the difference between
the masses of muon neutrinos and other types of neutrinos is only
about 0.07 electron volts (a measure of particle mass). This does
not yield a value of the masses themselves, only of the difference
between those of muon neutrinos and other types.
Although the mass of the neutrino of any flavor must be small,
Totsuka said, it may be several electron-volts, and if so, the
overall gravitational effect on the universe would perhaps be
significant. It has been estimated that at any given moment, every
teaspoon worth of volume of space throughout the universe contains
an average of 300 neutrinos, so their aggregate number is
staggering.
Representatives of dozens of neutrino experiments meet once
every two years to exchange ideas at conferences like the one under
way here. Present are representatives of teams that have installed
neutrino detectors on the bottom of Lake Baikal in Siberia, under
the Aegean Sea off the Greek coast, inside the Gran Sasso tunnel
under the Alps, under the ice covering the South Pole, and in many
other places.
LOS ANGELES -- For all of its 20-year history, blood products
specialist HemaCare Corp. has operated in the shadow of the
American Red Cross, struggling in the role of David to the Red
Cross' Goliath.
Now, in an apparent effort to even the playing field, HemaCare's
board of directors has hired a Red Cross insider to serve as chief
executive.
After a year in which the company saw essentially zero earnings
on stagnant sales of $11 million, William Nicely, former chief
executive for the Red Cross' Southern California blood services
division, was brought in Monday with a mandate to cut costs,
improve efficiency and drum up new business. In the process, the
board hopes, he will help bolster the company's anemic shares.
It's a deceptively simple list, Nicely said, and one for which
he is under the gun to devise a strategy. HemaCare's board will
meet June 29, and Nicely must make his recommendations then.
HemaCare was founded in 1978 to make money at what had
traditionally been a nonprofit business: the collection of blood
and blood components for resale to Southern California hospitals.
By emphasizing its small size relative to the Red Cross, and
putting a premium on customer service, HemaCare met with some
success, enough at least to go public in 1986. By 1992 the firm was
generating $12.4 million in annual sales. Earnings were harder to
come by, however, and from 1992 to 1994 the company lost money in
every quarter but one.
Part of the problem was a lack of focus. Over the years,
HemaCare dabbled in several money-losing projects, including
research on an alternative treatment for HIV infection and the
establishment of a blood services center in St. Louis.
Each of the endeavors was subsequently scrapped, leaving
HemaCare wiser but poorer, with only the business of collecting and
distributing blood to fall back on. But a back-to-basics strategy
based on those operations may simply not be enough to turn the
company around now, analysts say.
With its high concentration of hospitals, the Southern
California market has in recent years drawn additional suppliers
beyond HemaCare and the Red Cross, making it far more competitive
than in the early 1990s.
A large San Diego blood bank, for example, recently began
peddling its products in the Greater Los Angeles region after the
loss of a major local contract to the Red Cross left it with an
oversupply.
Officials at the nonprofit Red Cross, meanwhile, say they have
no intention of ceding any more of the $100 million L.A. market to
competitors. From an estimated 90 percent-plus market share a
decade ago, the Red Cross controls about 75 percent today. HemaCare
supplies about 10 percent of the market.
And because the Red Cross need not make money -- and in fact is
supplemented by charitable donations -- some have said it cheats. A
year ago, the organization settled out of court a lawsuit HemaCare
filed in 1995 alleging that its blood pricing in Los Angeles and
Orange counties violated federal fair-trade laws. And Nicely said
his former division did lose money throughout the first half of the
1990s.
WASHINGTON The director of central intelligence caused a stir
on Thursday by refusing to share some information with a Senate
committee investigating the transfer of satellite technology to
China, prompting Justice Department officials to backtrack and
permit the release of certain information.
The dispute began with the testimony of George Tenet, the
director of central intelligence, who cited a criminal inquiry by
the Justice Department in declining to disclose a document to the
Senate panel on its very first day of hearings.
Tenet told senators that the department had advised him that the
release of such information could jeopardize its inquiry into
whether a private company illegally passed on sensitive technology
to China.
The refusal had threatened to put the Clinton administration and
Congress at odds over an inquiry with serious national security
overtones, one to which President Clinton had promised his
cooperation.
After much criticism by senators on the committee Thursday, the
department lifted its objections to Tenet's disclosure of the
disputed document. But its spokesman, Bert Brandenburg, said on
Thursday night that the department still reserved the right to
excise sensitive information from other documents that might tip
off the government's strategy.
Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., who heads the intelligence
committee, plans to make an issue of the department's reluctance to
release information on Friday when Attorney General Janet Reno and
Louis Freeh, director of the FBI, testify before the committee, his
aides said.
Earlier on Thursday, Shelby warned the administration to honor
its promise to cooperate with the inquiry and not hide behind the
Justice Department's investigation.
Senior Justice Department officials said on Thursday that Tenet
was initially told not to talk to senators about certain
information because the disclosure could hamper the federal
investigation of the satellite company, Loral Space and
Communications of New York.
An administration official said on Thursday night that the
information Tenet refused to discuss was a CIA assessment of the
incident that led to the Loral inquiry. A similar report by the
Pentagon concluded last year that American national security was
harmed by the information passed on to the Chinese.
Thursday's three-hour closed hearing with Tenet marked the
opening round of months of hearings by several House and Senate
committees into whether China learned secret information from
American satellites that Beijing then used to aim its nuclear
missiles more accurately.
Shelby's committee is leading the investigation in the Senate.
The House plans to create a select committee to handle its separate
inquiry.
A federal grand jury is investigating whether Loral and another
satellite maker, Hughes Electronics, a Los Angeles division of the
General Motors Corp., illegally gave China space expertise that
allowed Beijing to more accurately aim its nuclear missiles. 
Loral's chairman and chief executive, Bernard Schwartz, was the
largest personal contributor to the Democratic National Committee
last year. Schwartz has denied he sought any favors in exchange for
his contributions.
While there are many strands to the various Congressional
inquiries, federal and congressional investigators are focusing on
the events following the Feb. 15, 1996, explosion seconds after a
Chinese rocket carrying a $200 million Loral satellite was
launched.
After the explosion, China asked the two American companies to
conduct an independent review of the accident. The team was led by
Loral, but included experts from Hughes. 
Administration officials say the American experts overstepped
the boundaries of what they could tell the Chinese during the
review. The State Department asked the Defense Technology Security
Administration in the Pentagon to investigate.
In mid-May 1997, the Pentagon agency's report, based on
intelligence and rocket experts, found that American security had
been harmed. Two weeks later, the U.S. Customs Service began an
investigation that became the basis for the government's criminal
inquiry.
The first 14 of the Local Social Mediation Agents, or ALMS, as
they are called, began patrolling the network this week after a
four-week training course just in time for next week's start of
the World Cup soccer tournament.
If soccer brings with it hooliganism, as many fear, the agents,
men and women around the age of 20, will be in the front line.
A spokesman for the transit authority, the RATP, said the agents
had a dissuasive and mediating role rather than a repressive one.
If trouble breaks out, the unidentified agents can call on the
police for help. Their only weapon is the power of persuasion.
The volunteer Guardian Angels, who came to Paris in a
short-lived experiment a few years ago, are seen by many as
unlawful vigilantes although they claimed to have reduced crime in
New York.
The Paris agents on the other hand will carry an official
warrant jointly issued by the RATP and the Paris police, and will
work in close collaboration with the police.
They have been given instruction in public liberty, principles
of law and psychological training in dealing with problems ranging
from drunkenness to graffiti spraying. The RATP said they were also
expected to lend a helping hand to people who are lost or in
difficulty.
Polls show that a perceived lack of security is foremost among
the concerns of passengers. Metro employees have gone on strike
several times in recent months because of attacks against
co-workers, and the RATP spends tens of millions of francs cleaning
up trains defaced by vandals.
The agents are being hired under a government plan to create
jobs for young people, under which the government will pay up to 80
percent of their wages.
The RATP says it hopes to have 50 agents on duty by the end of
June, and 250 within three years.
The Metro network already employs specialized security officials
and dog-handlers in addition to transit policemen a total of
about 1,000 men and women.
The mission of the young agents, who wear black uniforms, is
more specifically targeted at other young people. (To publish this 400-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
However, not even a state-of-the-art drainage system can make it
dry any faster after a thunderstorm.
Truck qualifying for tonight's Pronto Auto Parts 400K was
delayed 31/2 hours when a storm front dumped half an inch of rain
on the track in the evening.
The revised schedule has the IRL cars practicing in two groups
from 1 to 1:30 p.m and 1:30 to 2 p.m. Qualifying under a
best-of-two-laps format is scheduled for 3 p.m.
Reigning Indy 500 champion Eddie Cheever Jr. said he welcomed
the delay, because it gave his team an extra practice session.
It began to rain at TMS about 7:10 p.m., and rained for about a
half-hour. Drying crews got on the track about 8 p.m., and it took
more than two hours to get the track dry.
Before the rains came, there seemed to be plenty of evidence
that the track is faster since it was revamped.
Tony Stewart turned a hot lap of 223.224 in his Indy car, the
fastest ever at the speedway. The fast lap during the True Value
500k last year was 218.094 by Stewart.
Truck driver Bob Keselowski turned a hot lap of 177.597 in his
Dodge during the second practice session. Mike Bliss won the pole
last year with a lap of 175.667. 
The first 14 of the Local Social Mediation Agents, or ALMS, as
they are called, began patrolling the network this week after a
four-week training course just in time for next week's start of
the World Cup soccer tournament.
If soccer brings with it hooliganism, as many fear, the agents,
men and women around the age of 20, will be in the front line.
A spokesman for the transit authority, the RATP, said the agents
had a dissuasive and mediating role rather than a repressive one.
If trouble breaks out, the unidentified agents can call on the
police for help. Their only weapon is the power of persuasion.
The volunteer Guardian Angels, who came to Paris in a
short-lived experiment a few years ago, are seen by many as
unlawful vigilantes although they claimed to have reduced crime in
New York.
The Paris agents on the other hand will carry an official
warrant jointly issued by the RATP and the Paris police, and will
work in close collaboration with the police.
They have been given instruction in public liberty, principles
of law and psychological training in dealing with problems ranging
from drunkenness to graffiti spraying. The RATP said they were also
expected to lend a helping hand to people who are lost or in
difficulty.
Polls show that a perceived lack of security is foremost among
the concerns of passengers. Metro employees have gone on strike
several times in recent months because of attacks against
co-workers, and the RATP spends tens of millions of francs cleaning
up trains defaced by vandals.
The agents are being hired under a government plan to create
jobs for young people, under which the government will pay up to 80
percent of their wages.
The RATP says it hopes to have 50 agents on duty by the end of
June, and 250 within three years.
The Metro network already employs specialized security officials
and dog-handlers in addition to transit policemen a total of
about 1,000 men and women.
The mission of the young agents, who wear black uniforms, is
more specifically targeted at other young people. (To publish this 400-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosion
by the autumn. In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occur
in midsummer. In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large number
of Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.
The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work of
U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with Benjamin
Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcade
past the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's future
must be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and an
insistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how much
occupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.
This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning with
ever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.
This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted on
controlling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which this
subterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to set
the stage for the battle to come.
Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim. When in
1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugees
sheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, they
claimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feet
from the U.N. barracks.
If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implications
are appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.
compound, something it has hitherto always denied.
What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeli
border if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon? Israeli
officers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in the
West Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.
Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese as
hostages in return for information about the fate of missing
Israeli servicemen. Of these 22, one has now been held for 12
years.
Could anything be further from the truth? Subconsciously,
perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of the
nightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.
Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations from
their ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; before
bombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectively
assured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument with
them personally.
It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arab
world. Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.
We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree with
Netanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from the
Israeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is an
Arab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracy
Israel always claims to be.
In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for another
conflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people are
already absolved.
In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and his
government are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo is
dead, and that the Arabs will be blamed. They can be sure of the
second. (To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) 
BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosion
by the autumn. In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occur
in midsummer. In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large number
of Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.
The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work of
U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with Benjamin
Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcade
past the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's future
must be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and an
insistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how much
occupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.
This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning with
ever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.
This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted on
controlling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which this
subterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to set
the stage for the battle to come.
Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim. When in
1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugees
sheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, they
claimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feet
from the U.N. barracks.
If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implications
are appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.
compound, something it has hitherto always denied.
What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeli
border if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon? Israeli
officers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in the
West Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.
Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese as
hostages in return for information about the fate of missing
Israeli servicemen. Of these 22, one has now been held for 12
years.
Could anything be further from the truth? Subconsciously,
perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of the
nightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.
Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations from
their ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; before
bombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectively
assured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument with
them personally.
It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arab
world. Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.
We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree with
Netanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from the
Israeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is an
Arab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracy
Israel always claims to be.
In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for another
conflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people are
already absolved.
In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and his
government are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo is
dead, and that the Arabs will be blamed. They can be sure of the
second. (To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) 
FORT WORTH, Texas Texas Motor Speedway fostered high speeds
and even higher praise from NASCAR Craftsman Truck and Indy Racing
League drivers yesterday in its first test since a $2 million
renovation that included a newly paved track and a reconstruction
of troubling Turn 4.
The only blemish on yesterday's events may have been the rain
that moved through the area about 7:30 p.m. and delayed qualifying
for tonight's NASCAR Craftsman Truck Pronto Auto Parts 400K race
for more than three hours and postponed the qualifying round for
tomorrow's Indy Racing League True Value 500K competition until
today.
Renovations began less than three weeks after the NASCAR Winston
Cup Texas 500 on April 5, which was marked by a major crash in Turn
1 and drivers' complaints about the transition at the exit of Turn
4 and entrance into Turn 1.
Dennis Huth, NASCAR vice president for administration, said
officials at the speedway will continue to listen as drivers come
off the track and give reviews throughout the weekend.
Less than a half-hour into yesterday's NASCAR Craftsman Truck
Series opening practice, Barfield and his No. 35 Ortho Chevrolet
spun going into Turn 2. But he put all the blame for the crash on
himself.
But after their first practice session for tonight's Pronto Auto
Parts 400K, truck drivers followed Barfield in extolling the
track's new surface. Later yesterday afternoon, drivers of the
faster Indy Racing League cars, which race in tomorrow's True Value
500, also praised the track.
A new drainage system was installed after water seeped through
the pavement in Turn 1 during Texas 500 qualifying on April 3,
forcing postponement of the session until the next day.
NASCAR Craftsman Truck series defending champion Jack Sprague,
who pushed his truck to 176.062 mph by the second practice session,
said Texas Motor Speedway stands up to some of the more popular
tracks on the circuit.
BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosion
by the autumn. In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occur
in midsummer. In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large number
of Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.
The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work of
U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with Benjamin
Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcade
past the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's future
must be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and an
insistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how much
occupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.
This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning with
ever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.
This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted on
controlling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which this
subterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to set
the stage for the battle to come.
Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim. When in
1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugees
sheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, they
claimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feet
from the U.N. barracks.
If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implications
are appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.
compound, something it has hitherto always denied.
What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeli
border if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon? Israeli
officers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in the
West Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.
Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese as
hostages in return for information about the fate of missing
Israeli servicemen. Of these 22, one has now been held for 12
years.
Could anything be further from the truth? Subconsciously,
perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of the
nightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.
Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations from
their ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; before
bombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectively
assured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument with
them personally.
It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arab
world. Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.
We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree with
Netanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from the
Israeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is an
Arab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracy
Israel always claims to be.
In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for another
conflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people are
already absolved.
In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and his
government are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo is
dead, and that the Arabs will be blamed. They can be sure of the
second. (To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) 
Paul has succeeded Mike Groff as driver of Jonathan Byrd's No.
10 Dallara//Aurora, beginning with tomorrow night's True Value
500k. For a driver who exited the Indianapolis 500 with his Pep
Boys Indy Racing League future in limbo, the past three days have
been like winning the lottery. In three states.
Paul finished seventh in the 82nd Indy 500 on May 24, driving
for Team Pelfrey, a ride he picked up after Danny Ongais was
injured in a practice crash. Paul drove the first two races of 1998 and the previous two IRL seasons with PDM Racing. He finished
10th at Orlando, Fla., and 19th at Phoenix this year before his
stirring performance at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where he
led 39 laps. Only race-winner Eddie Cheever Jr. led more laps with
76.
Byrd's team, which is sponsored by VisionAire-Bryant Heating Cooling, is one of the IRL's originals. But it has been
overshadowed by the recent successes enjoyed by Team Menard,
Treadway Racing and A.J. Foyt Racing.
Byrd said Paul's performance at Indy was not the sole reason he
got the job. At age 22, Paul became the youngest champion in the
history of the International Motor Sports Association GT series in
1982 the year he also won the 24 Hours of Daytona and Sebring 12
Hours endurance races. Paul also won the Championship Auto Racing
Teams' Michigan 500 in 1983.
Odd-even gas ration lines formed at service stations across the
nation, and skyrocketing mortgage rates made young families despair
of ever owning a home.
But Americans, on average, saved more than twice as much of
their income for the future (ital)then(end ital) as they do now.
Barring a change, that means potential difficulties for the
estimated 77 million baby boomers who will reach retirement age
over the next two decades, he said.
Lyons and more than 200 other business and government leaders
are meeting in Washington Thursday and Friday (June 4 and 5) to
help sound that wake-up call.
The occasion is the Retirement Education Savings Summit, ordered
last year by Congress and the White House as part of a national
effort to spur Americans to begin saving more for retirement.
Other Midwesterners invited by White House and congressional
organizers to participate include Missouri Sen. William Clay of St.
Louis; Sheryl Davenport, president of the St. Louis teachers union;
and Mike Fitzgerald, Iowa's treasurer.
They will map out an aggressive public awareness campaign to
warn U.S. workers that they will need personal savings as well as
Social Security and pension income to live comfortably in
retirement.
Summit participants also will be asked to explore ways that
businesses can reduce barriers that keep many workers from saving
more, the secretary said.
Officials particularly want suggestions to help small businesses
provide savings opportunities for their employees. An estimated 25
million workers, mostly in businesses with fewer than 25 employees,
are not covered by pension plans of any kind other than Social
Security.
Many of those workers could be covered by plans if their
employers knew more about low-cost pension programs that are
available, Herman said.
It's nothing personal. It's just that the 1997 event at TMS is
the scene of Sprague's worst weekend in his four seasons racing the
trucks.
Sprague seemingly won the pole for last year's race, but was
caught with an illegal part in his engine during NASCAR's
post-qualifying inspection. He had to start from the back of the
pack.
He put on an incredible charge during the race, working his way
back to third, but the backup engine blew.
It was an extremely rare deal. It is the only time in 77 starts
that Sprague failed to finish a race.
He has seven victories on tracks of one mile or longer, the most
in series history.
His average finish on superspeedways tracks of 1.5 miles or
longer is third if the 31st at TMS last year is disregarded
He has finished in the top five in all seven truck races this
year, including a victory at the NAPACARD 200 in Monroe, Wash., on
May 9. His average finish this year is 3.14.
The statistics show that Sprague finished fifth at the Parts
America 150 last week at Watkins Glen. What the stats don't show is
a charge reminiscent of what he did at TMS last year.
Sprague started fifth, but had a flat tire on the 15th lap. By
the time he got into the pits and got out again he was back in 32nd
place.
He didn't stay there long. He immediately began to pass trucks,
a feat that can be difficult on a road course, and eventually kept
alive the string of top-five finishes.
LOS ANGELES -- Thirty years ago today, a bullet felled Sen.
Robert F. Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel, the last in a chain of
assassinations that robbed many Americans of their political
idealism and optimism.
So it's no surprise that those who were with Kennedy on that
tragic night are feeling melancholy about how little has changed
since June 5, 1968 -- from the fragmented state of race relations
to the unresolved controversy that surrounds the senator's death.
Thirty years ago, Kennedy was at the Ambassador Hotel to claim
victory in California's presidential primary. As he left through
the hotel's kitchen pantry, he passed Sirhan Sirhan, a Palestinian
immigrant enraged by Kennedy's support for Israel.
Shots were fired, and Kennedy collapsed. Sirhan ran, but was
wrestled to the ground by Grier and others. Kennedy died 26 hours
later. Sirhan was convicted and sentenced to life in prison.
If anything, recent events surrounding RFK's death have added
fuel to the conspiracy theorists, who are still demanding a new
government investigation into the three-decade-old crime. Today
through Sunday, the Coalition on Political Assassinations will
convene at the Continental Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles to trade its
latest theories.
Just a year ago, Sirhan himself insisted to a parole board that
he did not shoot the senator but was framed. His request to be
released was denied.
Adding to the controversy, a Los Angeles jury awarded a
photographer $450,600 in 1996 on claims that his photos of the
senator's death were mysteriously destroyed.
Scott Enyart was 15 on the night of the assassination and
contends that he was standing on a pantry table taking photographs
before, during and after the tragedy.
Enyart sued the city, claiming police confiscated his valuable
negatives, then lost or destroyed them. After years of litigation,
state authorities notified him in January 1996 that his film had
been found, misfiled in state archives.
But a city courier lost those images, claiming someone stole
them from a rental car when he stopped to fix a flat tire.
Defense attorneys claimed Enyart was never in the pantry and
that he only shot one roll, capturing little more than crowd shots
-- not the image of Kennedy twisting and falling, as Enyart has
claimed.
Charach, who said he too was in the room when Kennedy was
killed, has made a career investigating Sirhan's claim that another
man fired the fatal shot.
In a request for a new evidentiary hearing and trial for Sirhan,
Lawrence Teeter filed a petition last year with the Court of
Appeal, and now it sits before the state Supreme Court.
The petition claims police and prosecutors ignored evidence that
an armed security guard with anti-Kennedy views may have fired the
fatal shot. Teeter claims Sirhan may have been hypnotized when he
fired his own gun.
Grier isn't on the conspiracy theory convention circuit.
Instead, the football-player-turned-reverend commemorated the
anniversary earlier this week by leading a prayer in front of the
Ambassador Hotel.
But Grier refused to join a group touring the now-closed hotel,
a somewhat surreal journey that climaxed with Los Angeles
Councilman Nate Holden speaking hopefully about racial unity in the
pantry where Kennedy was slain.
Joseph Cerrell, a Los Angeles political consultant who was
working in his Ambassador Hotel-based office on June 5, 1968,
recently took his first tour of the building in more than a decade.
EXCELSIOR SPRINGS, Mo. A lot of American workers go to work
knowing exactly what they're earning a set amount for each hour,
each week or each month. They know it. They plan on it. And they
grouse about it.
So what happens when the rank and file are paid like CEOs? No,
not the same amount. In the same profit-based way. If the company
does well, everybody's paycheck increases. Everybody's.
Larry Sternberg is going to find out whether the concept works.
When The Elms Resort and Spa reopens this summer in Excelsior
Springs, general manager Sternberg will have every employee on an
incentive pay plan. Each month's paychecks will reflect the
strength of corporate performance the month before.
Yes, he's guaranteeing base pay. But, frankly, that minimum is
likely to be below what employees could earn elsewhere in the
hospitality industry.
The hospitality industry is seasonal. In lean months, paychecks
will be smaller, though Sternberg said he wouldn't cut into the
guaranteed base pay. In profitable months, paychecks will be
larger. The vagaries will require better budgeting by all workers.
Some applicants aren't willing to take the chance. Others are
willing to give it a try. Those are the workers Sternberg wants the people who will work hard to help the entire operation prosper,
not just because their own paychecks will benefit.
Sternberg prefers to think of the profit-distribution plan as an
incentive program rather than a pay program. The goal, he said, is
for all employees to come to work each day thinking about what they
can do to maximize company profits, which, of course, is done by
satisfying customers, saving operating costs and performing
productively.
Sternberg is confident he'll prove the naysayers wrong. He
figures this kind of incentive plan is at the heart of
entrepreneurism, where people work hard because of financial
self-interest.
The exact profit-sharing formula is not set, but as of a few
weeks before the scheduled reopening in early July, Sternberg is
aiming for a monthly distribution of about 8 percent of profits.
Profit distribution will not be entirely egalitarian. It will be
distributed to workers as fractions of their salary or wage rate.
In other words, the president's fraction is bigger than the maid's
because the president's base pay is higher.
Sternberg still thinks the front line will come out ahead of
where they would have been without profit-sharing. A year from now,
he should know.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Sometimes, on an afternoon in summer, it can
be fine just to strike out aimlessly in some unfamiliar direction
and see where the road takes you.
That's how childhood summers are recalled as having been
spiced with accidental pleasures. Even now, an eternity past
childhood, that was the feeling of this day.
Our destination, more or less, was the river. Beyond that, there
was no plan.
Once I walked the whole river bank, from the city's west end to
its far eastern limit. There were fresh beaver cuttings in the
willow and cottonwood brakes at the water's edge. And half-buried
mooring cables from the time when the Missouri was a busy highway
of settlement and commerce.
I would like to have shown her that. But the river is harder to
get to now.
It's been most of 30 years ago, and maybe memory is flawed. But
I think you could walk down to it almost anywhere you cared to, and
in many places could drive at least as far as the levee.
There may be ways to do that still, but if so we couldn't find
them. Chains and gates barred every approach.
So, paying no attention to the highway numbers, we proceeded
east a bit, then crossed a bridge and continued on, the river on
our right-hand side now.
The landscapes broadened and changed. Warehouses and giant
factories gave way to rolling pastures, soft as green pillows,
mounting up from wooded valleys through which ran bright little
streams.
Sometimes we were near the river, and could spy it through the
trees. Other times the road bent away from the lowland and up into
the hills.
We passed through towns we'd never seen before, and whose names
we only half-thought we might have heard some of them places of
modest substance, others faint outposts of habitation that
sheltered fewer than 150 souls.
Proud signs told the year of their establishment, only a couple
of decades short of two centuries ago.
River ports, some of them surely were when the river was the
westward way. Then the world rushed on, and took prosperity with
it, and left those places hardly changed.
In one of them we saw three boys talking by the road. We stopped
to ask the way to the river, which could not have been 500 yards
from where they stood.
So that's what it's come to now. Boys growing up in a river
town, unable to get to the river without hoofing it five miles down
the road. Sam Clemens would spin like a top in his grave.
We did find the little sign, and took the way it pointed, up
over a railroad track and across the flats to a parking place and a
ramp for launching boats.
Only then could one appreciate the true power and swiftness of
the current. Its surface broken by little rips and whorls, the
great muscular Missouri came sliding past on its journey across and
down the continent as it has all these many thousand years.
With their outboard engine laboring at full throttle against the
flow, the men in the boat hardly could be seen to move.
Then the sun lay like a fat apricot atop the trees. A little
breeze came up and blew the heat away. The air between the hills
softened to blue.
And we turned back in twilight, trying to remember the way we'd
come, filled up with the summer adventure of having done almost
nothing at all.
George Tiller, a Wichita abortion provider, and his Women's
Health Care Services filed the lawsuit. Tiller wants the new law,
which becomes effective July 1, to be put on hold to give the
justices time to decide its fate.
Those on both sides of the abortion issue have raised questions
about the wording of the hastily written bill.
Gov. Bill Graves signed the measure but later said it might take
a court challenge to clarify it.
Graves, who ran for office four years ago as a supporter of
existing law, drew fire from abortion-rights activists after he
signed the bill into law.
Dave Gittrich, a spokesman for Kansans for Life, said the
organization would file briefs in support of the law.
Tiller, in urging the court to hear the case, said it should
take the action now because if the case is filed in a lower court,
appeals eventually will bring it before the justices anyway.
The court is expected to decide before the end of the month
whether to hear the case, dismiss it or send it to a district
court.
Word of the filing came as no surprise to Planned Parenthood of
Mid-Missouri and Eastern Kansas.
The new law also requires detailed reporting of abortions to the
Kansas Department of Health and Environment. Tiller argued that
such a requirement could violate the self-incrimination provisions
of the U.S. Constitution.
That could occur, the lawsuit said, if he performed abortions he
believed to be legal and completed reports on them, and then they
were ruled illegal and he was prosecuted. The records could be used
against him.
In another area, Tiller said the law was so restrictive in cases
of medical emergency that a doctor could not act quickly to perform
an abortion when the fetus was viable if the woman's life was in
danger.
The lawsuit does not challenge a portion of the law that bans a
procedure often referred to as partial-birth abortion.
Gittrich argued that the bill took steps toward reducing the
number of late-term abortions performed on Kansas women as well as
those who traveled to the state specifically for the procedure.
NEW YORK Two weeks after the New York Mets acquired Mike
Piazza from the Los Angeles Dodgers, they reunited him on Thursday
night with one of the pitchers he caught every five days, Hideo
Nomo.
Four days after they designated Nomo for assignment following
his request to be traded, the Dodgers shipped the Japanese
right-hander to the Mets along with reliever Brad Clontz. The Mets
sent the Dodgers Dave Mlicki, their No. 5 starting pitcher, and
reliever Greg McMichael.
Nomo, who had a 2-7 record and a 5.05 earned run average in 12
starts this season, had hoped he would be traded to the Mets.
According to a person familiar with the development, the pitcher's
agent, Don Nomura, told the Dodgers that if they did not traded
Nomo to the Mets, he would go home to Japan.
Besides rejoining Piazza, Nomo becomes a teammate of his best
friend, Masato Yoshii, another of the Mets' starting pitchers. They
will make the Mets the first team in major league history with two
Japanese starting pitchers, and New York will have three, including
the Yankees' Hideki Irabu.
The Mets have had good starting pitching this season, but Mlicki
was the weak link with a 1-4 record and 5.68 era.
Nomo, the National League rookie of the year in 1995, has never
duplicated that season's performance of 13-6 and 2.54 era. His
record has slipped in each succeeding season, reaching 14-12 and
4.25 last season. He has maintained his strikeout total, but the
ratio of strikeouts per inning has slipped.
The decision of Fred Claire, the Dodgers' general manager, to
designated Nomo for assignment that meant the Dodgers had to move
him within 10 days was a shocking development, apparently even to
Nomo and Nomura, who thought the Dodgers would just proceed with an
attempt to trade the 29-year-old native of Osaka.
Claire, however, explained that he took that step because he did
not want Nomo pitching for the Dodgers once he publicly declared
his desire to be traded. Nomo had planned to disclose that desire
at a news conference last Monday, but at that session, Claire
announced his action.
More than half of the 30 major league teams called Claire to
inquire about a possible trade, but apparently only a handful
seriously pursued Nomo. The Baltimore Orioles were interested, but
the Dodgers wanted a starting pitcher in return and the Orioles did
not have one to give them. Cleveland was another team that was said
to have tried to make a deal with the Dodgers.
The Mets willingly included Mlicki in the package, but they did
not want to part with McMichael; they would have preferred
including John Hudek or Turk Wendell. But the Dodgers wanted a
reliever of the caliber of McMichael, and the Mets relented because
they wanted Nomo.
The pitcher has other connections to the Mets besides Piazza and
Yoshii. Dave Wallace, who is a senior adviser to General Manager
Steve Phillips, had been the Dodgers' pitching coach. In addition,
Manager Bobby Valentine managed in Japan, though that was in 1995,
the year after Nomo's last as a pitcher in Japan.
Fleming, who last year co-sponsored with Mayor Richard Riordan
the measure that created an elected Charter Reform Commission and
recently helped fund a poll on Valley secession, warned that
failure to take dramatic action could lead to the breakup of the
city.
His charter proposal, announced Thursday, would preserve Los
Angeles as a city by having each of the 15 elected district boards
send its mayor -- the City Council member under the current system
-- and several representatives to a 50-member Metropolitan Council
that would decide citywide issues such as harbor, airport,
utilities, police and fire services.
Members of the district boards and Metropolitan Council would
serve on a part-time basis and be paid about $100 a meeting.
The downtown metropolitan government would continue to provide
centralized police, fire, public works and other services for the
whole city, but the local districts would be free to shop from a
menu of services.
As an incentive to development, local districts would be able to
keep revenue generated by their decisions for enhancing their
neighborhoods.
Fleming, who has avoided direct comment as the elected and
appointed Charter Reform Commissions grappled and often stumbled in
different directions, chose as a forum for his proposal a major
meeting on charter reform sponsored by the Valley Industry and
Commerce Association.
With his longtime leadership roles in the VICA, the Economic
Alliance of the Valley and numerous civic and philanthropic
organizations, Fleming long has been regarded as the unofficial
mayor of the Valley.
His proposal was well-received by VICA and other Valley leaders
who have been debating endorsement of similar proposals, but others
outside the Valley rejected Fleming's ideas outright.
Sam Bell, who heads the Los Angeles Business Advisors, said
downtown business leaders would actively oppose any system of local
councils with power to decide planning matters.
Bell said the group of prominent downtown corporation leaders
wants to expand the City Council from 15 to 33 or 35 members, but
opposes empowered neighborhood councils.
Fleming, however, said he would transfer significant powers to
the 15 district boards, including authority to set locations and
hours for local parks and libraries, deciding which trees to trim
and streets to repair, and regulating street vending and signs.
Each district could contract with the metropolitan government
for local services, but they could also put tax-increase measures
on the district ballot to improve services in their area.
Fleming's charter would contain a doctrine of regional supremacy
that would allow citywide interests to take precedence over local
ones. For instance, a district near Los Angeles International
Airport could not shut down the facility if it conflicted with the
citywide policy.
The mayor would serve as the arbitrator when the interests of
two districts conflict, with the mayor's decision subject to
ratification by the Metropolitan Council, which could override on a
two-thirds vote.
Answering concerns about anti-development neighborhood boards,
Fleming proposed the incentive of having new tax revenue generated
by development staying with the district.
He cited the economic boom in Burbank, in the San Fernando
Valley, as an example of what could happen if each of the 15
districts benefits from rising tax revenue generated by new
development.
While the 15 districts reflect the current number of council
districts, boundaries would be reconfigured to reflect communities
and shared interests.
VICA leaders said the plan is very similar to their proposal of
a system of elected town councils with decision-making powers.
The Fleming proposal is also similar to an idea advanced by
elected Charter Reform Commission member Paula Boland. She was not
at the forum, but attorney Rob Glushon of suburban Encino, another
member of the city's elected charter panel, said he is open to
Fleming's concept.
Brain was skeptical about whether the proposal will be accepted
either by the Charter Reform Commissions or the City Council.
Councilwoman Jackie Goldberg said she is concerned that some
parts of the city would have more development, new tax money and
better services than others.
Fleming said his proposal would require that all areas of the
city retain, at a minimum, their current levels of services and
revenue.
Goldberg favors local councils with decision-making power on
land-use issues and access to a small pot of money, about $250,000,
to spend on local priorities.
Los Angeles cannot afford, for instance, to do what she said
Torrance does, which is to turn down federal funds for low-income
housing.
She also predicted it would also be hard to get voter approval
of expanding the City Council to 50 members.
Fleming said his proposal provides for part-time members of the
district boards and Metropolitan Council, who might at most receive
a $100-per-meeting stipend, except for the district mayors.
The first mayor of each district would be the City Council
member who represents the district in 2001, when the new charter
would take effect. They would be paid the same $107,390 a year they
now earn as City Council members and would retain their staffs.
Each five- to seven-member district board would meet once a
week. Each would send its mayor and a few board members to the
Metropolitan Council, which might meet three or four times a month.
The mayor of Los Angeles would remain the city's chief
administrator, with expanded power over policy, and hiring and
firing department heads.
Fleming said the new system of government should begin July 1,
2001, when the current mayor and half of the City Council will be
term-limited out of office. He plans to formally present the plan
to Riordan and both Charter Reform Commissions soon.
Riordan has proposed creation of a system of advisory
neighborhood councils, selected at local caucuses, with some power
over a portion of the city budget.
WASHINGTON A near-collision by two big passenger jets at La
Guardia Airport in New York in April has prompted the Federal
Aviation Administration to order retraining for the 10,000 air
traffic controllers working in airport towers nationwide.
A US Airways DC-9 arriving at La Guardia on April 3 flew under a
departing Air Canada A-320, the two planes missing each other by as
little as 20 feet, according to the FAA.
The near-collision had not been previously disclosed, in part
because information about it was not forwarded properly for
investigation and agency officials therefore did not learn about it
until several weeks later, the FAA said. Agency officials said a
controller at the La Guardia air traffic tower had promptly
informed his supervisor, but the supervisor did not properly report
it to his superiors.
The US Airways pilot did report the incident after he returned
to his base in Pittsburgh, but that report, too, was mishandled,
the agency said.
Brenner said that his office had received inquiries about the
incident in early April from The New York Times, The Washington
Post and CBS News. But after checking records and finding no
mention of a near-collision or a so-called operational error when
a controller's mistake puts two planes in close proximity he told
those organizations that there had been no problem. News of the
retraining was first reported in Friday morning's editions of The
Washington Post.
Brenner said on Thursday night that the incident occurred about
9:30 a.m. on April 3, when the winds were low and La Guardia was
using two intersecting runways. The Air Canada flight was departing
to the northwest and the US Airways flight was approaching on a
southwest heading.
According to the FAA, the go-around order was proper but came
late. But the FAA still has not cited the controller who gave the
order, and has not ascribed an error to anyone else. The FAA is
continue to investigate, as is the National Transportation Safety
Board.
The executive vice president of the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association, Randy Schwitz, said that the FAA had come
to his union and said it wanted to order two hours of additional
training for all controllers in airport towers around the country.
The FAA said the reason was to reduce incidents at airports, but
the agency did not tie it to the event at La Guardia, he said.
The retraining plan does not include controllers at air route
traffic control centers, which handle mostly high-altitude,
long-distance airliners, or at the terminal radar approach
controls, which handle planes as they descend to airports or climb
away from them.
Priscille LeBlanc, a spokeswoman for Air Canada, had no specific
information about a near-collision on April 3 at La Guardia
Airport. She did recall receiving a query from a newspaper around
that time about a near-miss incident, but couldn't say for certain
whether that was the same incident.
Sharon Taylor, a spokeswoman for US Airways, said that she did
not have any information on such an incident.
LOS ANGELES -- The two young children of Phil and Brynn Hartman
joined relatives at a private memorial service for the
actor-comedian and his wife, a week after she killed him and then
committed suicide.
The hourlong eulogy Thursday in a stone cemetery chapel at
Forest Lawn Memorial Park in suburban Glendale drew more than 20
family members and their spouses, as news helicopters hovered above
and reporters stood outside the cemetery gates.
A few paparazzi tried to storm the hilltop Church of the
Recessional but were turned back by security personnel, said family
spokesman Stan Rosenfield.
Hartman and his wife have been cremated, in accordance with
their wills, which directed that the 49-year-old comic's ashes be
scattered at Emerald Bay off Catalina Island, Rosenfield said.
Rosenfield said he hopes that by Monday he will announce the
charities that relatives have selected to receive donations on
behalf of the Hartmans.
On Wednesday night, celebrities and friends of Phil Hartman
attended a memorial service at The Groundlings, the Melrose Avenue
improv company that Hartman belonged to from 1975 to 1986.
Earlier this week, Los Angeles police released a tape of the 911
call that led them to the couple's home in suburban Encino on May
28. The caller, Ron Douglas of nearby Studio City, told dispatchers
that Brynn Hartman, a longtime friend, had come to his home
sometime after 3 a.m. and confessed to shooting her husband.
Initially disbelieving her, Douglas followed her back to the
Hartmans' home, where he saw Phil Hartman's body and called police.
Douglas was taking one of the couple's children from the house when
Brynn Hartman, 40, locked herself in the master bedroom and shot
herself.
According to police, she did not tell Douglas why she killed her
husband.
Friends of the Hartmans said the marriage was troubled by both
the comedian's inability to communicate with his wife and her bouts
with drugs and alcohol.
Police found no illegal drugs in the house after the
murder-suicide, but coroner's investigators plan to do further
toxicological tests, the results of which will not be available for
at least a week.
Sandwiched around an exciting 3-2 victory over the St. Louis
Cardinals, the Los Angeles Dodgers traded Hideo Nomo to the New
York Mets and learned that they might have lost left-fielder Todd
Hollandsworth for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury.
And now they head to Seattle, ground zero for the failed Randy
Johnson trade, where they open a three-game interleague series
tonight with the Mariners.
They feel pretty good winning for the second consecutive night
after dropping four in a row. They feel better about seeing Chan Ho
Park regain his confidence by pitching seven strong innings on a
night he didn't have his best stuff.
And best of all, they got clutch hitting from Charles Johnson,
who won it in the ninth with a two-out single after Eric Karros
tied it in the eighth with his sixth RBI in two games.
They finally unloaded Nomo, who had demanded to be traded. The
Dodgers receive two pitchers: hard throwing starter Dave Mlicki,
who will join the team in Seattle and could start in that series,
and reliever Greg McMichael. The Dodgers also gave up reliever Brad
Clontz, who was pitching at Triple-A.
Before the game, the club learned that Hollandsworth, who was
hitting well for the first time since winning the 1996 Rookie of
the Year Award, had torn cartilage in his left shoulder and will
undergo surgery Thursday.
But for the players, the game was the thing. And for Johnson, it
was particularly gratifying. He got Park through a long outing and
continued his hot hitting. Johnson is 10 for 23 with three homers
in a six-game hitting streak that started after an 0 for 35
stretch.
The victory went to Scott Radinsky (2-2), who has a win and a
save after blowing two save opportunities over the weekend.
He was coming off a five-RBI game Wednesday night, but he was
booed when he had trouble running out a sixth-inning grounder
because of his chronically sore left knee. Later, when a foul pop
landed near him, Karros couldn't dive because of the knee that
forced him to miss 22 games to begin the season.
Even when he pitched well last Friday, the Dodgers bullpen blew
the lead in the ninth and lost the game in the 12th.
He did not have his good fastball. But when he started to retire
Cardinals hitters without it, his confidence soared.
LOS ANGELES -- When John Elway walked the halls of Granada Hills
High School in the late 1970s, he was a big man on campus --
leading the baseball team to back-to-back city championships and
the football team to the city playoffs.
The 37-year-old Denver Broncos quarterback and Super Bowl
champion returned to suburban Granada Hills to join 3,500 fans for
the renaming of the football field as John Elway Stadium. It had
been named after founding Principal Bryce Schurr.
For Elway, who traveled from his home in Engelwood, Colo., with
his 8-year-old son, Jack, this marked a rare appearance at his alma
mater.
Just this week, Elway announced that he would play one more
season in the National Football League before calling it quits. On
Thursday, his return to the stadium where it all began elicited
memories of his high school victories -- one in particular.
The renaming of the stadium was engineered by Elway's high
school teammate Chris Sutton, coach Darryl Stroh and Principal
Kathleen Rattay. And it did not come easily.
Albert Irwin, the school's principal from 1976-86, who signed
Elway's diploma, acknowledged there was a lot of controversy over
the name change.
Former teammates and current coaches also say Elway deserves the
honor. His name on the new $8,000 scoreboard, donated by an
anonymous former high school teammate of Elway's, will help
motivate future Highlander players, they say.
In talking to the students, Elway espoused those ideals, telling
them to set goals just above their reach and get an education so
they will be prepared for future opportunities.
That and more have earned him cult status among his fans, but
that was nowhere more apparent than in Denver, where two TV
stations carried the 50-minute ceremony live.
BOSTON There may have still been a few holdouts despite what
they saw on television last weekend in New York, but no more.
The Bret Saberhagen bandwagon is back at capacity after the Red
Sox righthander, in his longest start since 1995, went seven
innings in a 9-1 win over the Baltimore Orioles before 33,104 fans
Thursday night in Fenway Park.
The sellout crowd included Cardinal Bernard Law, who is said to
have a passing acquaintance with miracles, and Saberhagen's former
New York teammate John Franco and a couple of his playmates,
including newcomer Mike Piazza, who will be in uniform for the Mets
in their first visit to Fenway Park since 1986.
FYI: The Steamer, Bob Stanley, has not been invited back to
throw out Friday night's ceremonial first pitch. The Sox did not
want to renew the debate on whether it would be a wild pitch or
passed ball.
For most ballplayers, the ballpark is the last place they'd want
to spend an off day. Saberhagen figures Franco stuck around for no
more than five innings, which in the past would have assured the
Mets closer of missing at most an inning of his friend's
performance.
But not Thursday night, as Saberhagen went seven innings for the
first time in 23 starts dating back to Aug. 13, 1995. Aided by two
double plays and throwing his curveball with a frequency that
surprised the Orioles, Saberhagen clearly ended the tailspin that
raised questions about the staples, paste, and paper clips holding
his surgically repaired shoulder together.
Though the Orioles had runners in each of his innings,
Saberhagen did not allow a run until B.J. Surhoff hit a hanging
curveball over the Red Sox bullpen for a home run with one out in
the seventh. Saberhagen's best inning was the sixth, when the
Orioles had runners on the corners with no outs and he struck out
Joe Carter and retired the next two batters, Harold Baines and
Rafael Palmeiro, on easy fly balls.
Saberhagen's most efficient inning was the fourth, when he gave
up a leadoff single to Carter on his first pitch and needed only
two more pitches to retire the side. Baines hit a comebacker that
Saberhagen turned into a double play, and Palmeiro flied to left.
The Red Sox had been shut out the night before by Doug Johns, an
itinerant pitcher who began the previous spring touring cheese
factories while playing in Parma, Italy.
But Thursday night against a 22-year-old righthander from Aruba,
Sidney Ponson, the Red Sox finally took advantage of an Orioles
pitching staff that has three starters occupying the disabled list.
Every batter in the Boston lineup reached base at least once
against Ponson and three relievers, with Darren Lewis breaking the
game open in the sixth by wrapping a two-run homer around the Pesky
Pole, making it 5-0. Lewis now has three home runs, two that have
curled into the right-field grandstand.
Mo Vaughn had his first three-hit game since May 8, while Mike
Benjamin, who will be alternating with Lou Merloni at second base,
had two singles, scored three runs, drove in two, and made two
terrific defensive plays.
The Red Sox, who begin a week's worth of interleague play with a
three-game set against the Mets this weekend, split a pair here
with the Orioles, whom they won't see again until right after the
All-Star break.
In their first extended stretch against their chief rivals in
the American League East the Yankees, Blue Jays, and Orioles the Red Sox went 6-7, including five wins in their last six games.
LOS ANGELES -- Debbie Weiss sat on the edge of her son Brian's
bed, watching him take out his anger and hurt on the keyboard of
his computer.
She wanted to walk over and hug him, cry with him. Instead, she
let him be, let him write it from the heart.
The woman from the hospice had left the house only minutes
earlier. It would be a few more days, a week tops, she had told
Debbie and Brian.
A week tops for 51-year-old Rick Weiss, slowly dying. And then
Debbie would be a widow, and Brian fatherless. Because of a bad
habit.
There would be no more nights when Debbie would look into the
den and see her husband and son on the couch together, watching one
of those science or nature shows they loved so much on the cable
channels. No bringing them dinner while they sat in front of the
computer working out some difficult science and math problems
together.
They weren't much for sports, this father and son, but they
bonded solidly in the mind.
And now, when her husband should be here sharing the proudest
moment of his son's academic life -- reveling with Brian in the six
medals he won individually and with his Fairmont Private School
teammates in the Orange County Academic Pentathlon -- Rick was
instead lying in a hospice, dying.
And a 12-year-old boy wasn't able to share a joyful hug with the
father who led him down this academic road to victory.Instead, the
boy was up in his room venting his anger and hurt -- writing a
letter to tobacco manufacturers.
It took Brian five minutes, his mother says -- five minutes in
front of the computer in his room to bang out this letter to the
people he felt were responsible for killing his father: the tobacco
manufacturers.
Debbie sat by her husband's bed in the hospice a couple of
nights before he died, holding the letter her son had written to
the tobacco manufacturers. She wanted Rick to hear it.
Nobody but Rick could say for sure what was going through his
mind at that moment, but most fathers could imagine.
He was too upset and angry at himself to listen to his son's
letter. He was leaving behind a wife and a son he loved very much
because of a bad habit. How tragically stupid he had been.
Debbie held her husband's hand and told him it was OK. She
understood. She said Brian had decided not to go ahead and mail the
letter to tobacco manufacturers because they probably would just
throw it in the trash can anyway.
Brian had come up with a better plan. With his rabbi's blessing,
he was using the letter as his act of good deed for his bar mitzvah
next year -- using it to gather signatures for a anti-smoking
petition to send to tobacco manufacturers and politicians.
A 12-year-old boy going out and spreading the word to anyone who
will listen about how it is to lose a father you love very much to
a bad habit that kills.
BOSTON He is the fourth-oldest Oriole ever, behind Rick
Dempsey, Dizzy Trout, and Dave Philley. He stands seventh all-time
with 979 games pitched and is taking a run at the No. 6 man, Lindy
McDaniel, at 987.
Add the two World Series rings with the New York Mets and Los
Angeles Dodgers and you'd think Baltimore reliever Jesse Orosco,
who turned 41 April 21 and is in his 21st professional season 18
in the majors would look back on his career and point to the
championships and the personal statistics as his crowning
achievements.
But Orosco, who saved Game 7 of the 1986 World Series against
the Red Sox for the Mets, figures he's probably set a different
kind of rec-ord.
Orosco, who had a career-high 71 appearances with the Orioles
last season and whose 975 relief appearances for five teams rank
fourth in major league history, is still going strong, physically
and mentally.
BOSTON He was a career .247 hitter who signed on last December
with his fifth major league team since the 1995 season. But Red Sox
outfielder Darren Lewis, who went 3 for 5 with a home run in
Thursday night's 9-1 thrashing of the Orioles at Fenway Park, is
not only batting .300, he's rediscovered his old San Francisco
Giants niche as a leadoff hitter.
Pressed into service at the top of the order by Jimy Williams
when Nomar Garciaparra went down with a shoulder injury in early
May, Lewis has batted leadoff in 23 of Boston's last 24 games.
Both Williams and Lewis were part of the dramatic 1993 pennant
race in the National League West when the Braves, for whom Williams
was a coach, won their 104th game on the last day of the regular
season. The Giants, who won 103 games that season, the last before
the wild card, were beaten by the Dodgers in their final game.
Lewis, who set a personal season high Thursday night with six
total bases and tied his season highs with three hits and three
RBIs, would like nothing better than to get another taste of
postseason play.
He came heartbreakingly close as a key man with the Giants in
'93 and was a backup outfielder with the Reds in 1995 when they
were eliminated in the National League Championship Series by the
Braves.
BUFFALO Joe Juneau, pilot, aeronautical engineer, and center,
helped the Capitals fly into the Stanley Cup finals Thursday night
when he knocked home Brian Bellows's rebound at 6:24 of overtime,
leading Washington to a 3-2 victory over the Sabres in Game 6 of
the Eastern Conference finals at Marine Midland Arena.
Juneau, the former Bruin who was traded to Washington in March
1994 for Al Iafrate, was left with an easy tap at the right post
after Bellows twice took shots at goalie Dominik Hasek shots that
were set up by another ex-Bruin, Adam Oates.
And so ended the Sabres' Cinderella run in the spring of '98.
Although backed by Hasek, considered the best goalie in the world,
the young Sabres ultimately could not match the Capitals' veteran
touch around the net as they lost the best-of-seven series, 4-2.
And Hasek was slightly outplayed by Olaf Kolzig, who turned back 39
shots Thursday night in leading the Caps to the finals for the
first time in their 24-year history.
The Caps will visit the winner of the Western Conference finals Dallas or Detroit in Game 1 Tuesday. Game 2 will be Thursday,
followed by Games 3 and 4 in Washington the following Saturday and
Tuesday.
Thursday Washington coach Ron Wilson captured his club's
imagination by asking his players to focus on the accomplishments
of Apollo 11.
The one giant leap for the Caps came on a neutral-zone turnover
by Buffalo defenseman Darryl Shannon. Oates took possession outside
the blue line, fed Bellows, and the rest was in the hands of
Mission Control.
The Sabres appeared to have a date for Game 7 set in the third
period when Paul Kruse used one of his skates to knock in a Bob
Boughner slapper. Fighting for position down low in the slot, Kruse
couldn't have seen Boughner's steamer tick off his boot and slip
past Kolzig for the 2-1 lead. Thousands of white pom-poms in the
crowd were raised in celebration, looking like ghosts of playoffs
past for the Caps, who three times in their history lost series
after taking 3-1 leads.
With 5:59 remaining in regulation, the persistent Caps tied it,
2-2, when Peter Bondra redirected Andrei Nikolishin's pass from the
right wing board. It turned out to be the end for the Sabres, a
plucky bunch of kids who rallied around Hasek, their Olympic
gold-medal goalie, and came within six victories of a Cup.
The Caps now have four days to rest their aged bones and prepare
for the finals. Too old and too tattered to get to where they're
going, they could be trooping the Stanley Cup down Pennsylvania
Avenue in a couple of weeks.
In the meantime, Wilson can work on his next theme, maybe
something with William Shattner or Leonard Nimoy. The Caps have
shown there is a whole universe of possibilities.
Nomo, designated for assignment Monday after demanding the
Dodgers trade him, was sent to the New York Mets in a four-player
deal that was completed after O'Malley assured the pitcher he would
not be sent to a team against his wishes.
The trade reunites Nomo with former pitching coach Dave Wallace
and catcher Mike Piazza. Mets starter Masato Yoshii was a former
teammate with the Kintetsu Buffaloes and New York manager Bobby
Valentine managed one season in Japan.
But according to several sources, O'Malley's personal
relationship with Nomo helped shape the deal. O'Malley stressed
Thursday in a private meeting with Japanese media the importance of
his friendship with Nomo, who O'Malley helped sign in 1995.
Claire spent most of Thursday negotiating with four clubs
including Baltimore, Cleveland and Texas. The Angels, who had
expressed an interest in Nomo, were asked about closer Troy
Percival but said no.
Nomo, the 1995 National League Rookie of the Year, is looking to
get his career back on track after dropping to 2-7 with a 5.05 ERA
at the time he was designated. He is in the final season of a
three-year contract that is paying $2.8 million.
Nomo became frustrated when the Dodgers did not offer a contract
extension this winter. Last fall, he underwent surgery to remove
bone chips from his right elbow. He also had personality clashes
with Dodgers manager Bill Russell, but the lack of a contract
beyond this season was the leading reason for his unhappiness.
Claire was very close to completing a deal with Baltimore on
Wednesday, but O'Malley intervened after Nomo indicated he did not
want to play for the Orioles.
Mlicki, who will join the Dodgers this weekend in Seattle, is
making $1.25 million in the first of a two-year contract.
McMichael, who will join the Dodgers on Monday when they open a
three-game series against Oakland, is guaranteed $1.8 million this
season with a $1.95 million option for next season. The option
becomes guaranteed if he pitches in at least 31 more games this
season.
The Dodgers were hoping to get left-handed reliever Brian
Bohanon, who is earning $350,000 this year. But his 2-2 record and
2.30 ERA and the ability to start and relieve made him too valuable
to the Mets.
Here is a list of NATIONAL stories and general ADVISORIES that
moved Thursday, June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times
News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of CAMPAIGN stories that moved through 2:30
a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved Thursday, June
4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved Thursday, June
4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Thursday,
June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved Thursday, June 4,
through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of ENTERTAINMENT stories that moved Thursday,
June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnists that moved yesterday
through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved Thursday, June
4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of FOOD and DINING stories that moved Thursday,
June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
SALT LAKE CITY Since errors occur so infrequently in this
space, the discovery of one becomes a rare nugget worthy of
examination. Strictly for the advancement of science, we bring
forth a particularly luminous one.
About two years ago this week, it was written here that the
triumph of the SuperSonics in the Western Conference Finals crushed
the last, best chance for the aging tandem of Karl Malone and John
Stockton to lead the Utah Jazz to an NBA championship.
In the technical jargon of basketball journalism, the
observation is known as a boink (in Seattle, a boink is also known
as a Vin Baker free throw).
After watching the Jazz put the Chicago Bulls in a place they
haven't experienced in seven years behind in the Finals on
Wednesday night, it is apparent that I severely misread the
expiration date stamped on the side of the Jazz.
A bit of solace in the faulty judgment comes from the fact that
the premature obituary of the Jazz was written, read and accepted
by lots of people, including the handful of folks smarter than
sportswriters.
That might be true, but the more likely cause is that few have
ever seen the likes of Stockton and Malone. We're not talking about
their floor games here; certainly, every sports fan in Seattle
knows the Malone-Stockton pick-and-roll better than they know
breakfast. Malone's big haunches have been backing down on Sonic
post men for a dozen years.
It's just that Malone and Stockton keep doing it. Again and
again and again. Malone has missed just five games out of the 1,076
in his career. Until Stockton missed this season's first 18 games
recovering from knee surgery, he had missed just four compared to
the 1,158 games he had put in.
Among all the accolades, statistics and awards that these future
Hall of Famers have accumulated, their constancy of excellence at
the top of the NBA game is the most astonishing feat.
A little bit is luck from lack of injuries. But the source for
this legacy is the supplementing of their physical gifts with a
work ethic that is unsurpassed.
The only way Stockton, 35, and Malone, 35 next month, can be
attempting to wrest the NBA world from the Midwestern Hercules is
through a year-round dedication that is unknown to so many younger
stars.
Newcomers to the Jazz team are regularly dumbstruck by Malone's
habits. He arrives two hours before practice to lift weights, and
after practice he spends an hour on a Stairmaster.
Stockton takes two weeks off after the season, then begins a
cruel regimen back home in Spokane that has him up to a five-hour
daily workout by August.
His resting heart rate is 35 beats a minute, which is half the
rate of the average person. He and Malone have 4 percent body fat,
about what is found on world-class bike racers. Their
cardiovascular systems, lung capacities and blood pressures are far
superior to most athletes in any sport.
Which is just another way of explaining how the Jazz outscored
the Bulls 21-6 on fast-break points in Game 1. Despite the chronic
aches that afflict joints, and some decline in skill, Stockton and
Malone are confined to mid-30s bodies only by the numbers on their
drivers' licenses.
For Sloan, the ethic of Stockton and Malone exacts the kind of
teammate pressure that makes coaching new players easier.
It's no coincidence that the Jazz's opposition in this
tournament is led by a semi-elderly group (Michael Jordan, 35,
Scottie Pippen 32, and Dennis Rodman, 37) that also has told Father
Time to drop dead. Sloan was amused that so much was made of
Jordan's apparent game-ending fatigue Wednesday.
Yet what has driven them is not altogether mercenary. Jazz owner
Larry Miller told the Deseret News of a locker-room encounter with
Stockton a few years ago.
Nor is a calendar an effective instrument with which to measure
them.
SEATTLE It does not seem possible, but the Mariners discovered
another way to lose a game Thursday night. Unbelievably, the
bullpen was not a factor.
The Angels delivered the newest blow, a 6-2 defeat, which means
the Mariners have now been swept in two straight two-game series.
It won't happen again this weekend. The Dodgers are here for three
games.
Thursday night the Angels scored the winning run on a
suicide-squeeze play, unusual enough at the major-league level,
particularly when executed flawlessly.
Justin Baughman got the bunt down, and Orlando Palmeiro raced
home untouched as starter Ken Cloude threw to first for the second
out in the fourth inning.
With that, he sprayed on some cologne and walked away, the man
who took a called third strike to end the game.
Ken Griffey Jr. supplied the only response during the game, a
two-run homer in the first inning. Afterward, it was clear the
center fielder is not being paid by the syllable.
Cecil Fielder is usually spotted launching majestic home runs.
In the Angels clubhouse, he was holding a victory brew and perhaps
a few answers for the Mariners.
The slugger knows what the Mariners are going through. He played
for the Detroit Tigers, a high-scoring team with a pitching staff
that could not shut anyone down.
Fielder also believes the Mariners might be struggling because
of all the trade rumors revolving around Randy Johnson. Like many
others, he doesn't get it.
The Mariners went in front 2-0 in the first inning after Griffey
smacked a two-run homer off the facing of the second deck in right
field. Griffey entered the game with just one hit off Angels
starter Ken Hill in 15 career at-bats.
Griffey broke ahead of teammate Alex Rodriguez in their American
League home-run battle, Junior stroking his 22nd while the Mariner
shortstop remained at 21 after going 0-for-3. Griffey tied
Colorado's Vinny Castilla for second in the major league home-run
race. They both trail Mark McGwire, who has 27.
Ahead 4-2, the Angels added another run in the eighth amid
Kingdome silence that was interrupted only by occasional boos from
some disgruntled customers among the gathering of 23,709.
And, yes, the boos were directed at two ineffective Mariner
relievers, Greg McCarthy and Mike Timlin. McCarthy, the left-hander
who was just called up from Tacoma Wednesday, received a hostile
welcome after walking three of the five batters he faced. Timlin
was doused after allowing a run-scoring single to DiSarcina.
A fitting accessory to a Mariner loss showed up in the ninth
inning. Bobby Ayala is the reliever with an 0-5 record who allowed
a game-winning two-run homer in his last appearance Tuesday in
Baltimore. Thursday night he gave up one more run as the mood
turned somber and fans turned toward the stairs and the parking
lot.
The Mariners blew a chance to pick up ground on AL West-leading
Texas but moved within one game of last-place Oakland.
Although he leaves Seattle with his team six games in front of
the beaten opponents, Fielder remains a wary observer.
The Mariners' annual $1.8 million take for allowing their park
to be called Safeco Field for 20 years is more than twice the fees
that corporations paid to put their names on Coors Field in Denver,
Jacobs Field in Cleveland or KeyArena in Seattle.
The Mariners thus will become the 11th major league baseball
team to play in a stadium with a corporate sponsor's name on it.
Before 1990, no baseball teams played in a stadium with a corporate
sponsor. In just that short span, naming-rights fees have become an
integral component in financing hundreds of millions of dollars in
stadium construction around the country.
In return, companies with naming rights deals enjoy years of
name marketability and publicity that has untold value on business,
according to Brenner.
When the 3Com telecommunications company purchased the naming
rights to Candlestick Park in San Francisco five years ago for $4
million, the company told Team Marketing Reports that its stock
trading volume went up and the number of qualified applicants for
jobs also increased from other parts of the country.
Safeco hopes to get similar national exposure from purchasing
the naming rights from the Mariners. Company officials intend to
draw comparisons between Safeco's insurance business and baseball.
Dickey said Safeco, which also sponsors the Safeco Classic LPGA
golf tournament in Kent every year, researched the value of several
other naming-rights deals before entering into their agreement with
the Mariners.
The wave of stadium naming-rights deals spread in the late 1980s
with the Great Western Forum in Los Angeles, the Delta Center in
Salt Lake City and ARCO Arena in Sacramento, followed by the United
Center in Chicago and the Target Center in Minneapolis, all
National Basketball Association venues. Now there are 18 NBA teams
playing in arenas with naming rights sold to corporate or private
sponsors and 56 teams total in the NBA, major league baseball,
National Football League and National Hockey League.
In the Mariners' case, the money will help offset the minimum of
$45 million that the team is obligated to pay as its share of the
$417 million ballpark. Over the 20-year life of the deal with
Safeco, the Mariners will receive about $40 million for the naming
rights when the annual figures are adjusted for inflation.
Mariner president Chuck Armstrong noted the team already has
paid about $22.5 million of its share for stadium construction,
which is just over half complete.
The biggest naming-rights deal in the country is the $100
million over 20 years that Staples Office Supply will pay for
having its name affixed to the new Staples Center in Los Angeles.
Brenner noted that the deal is so high because three professional
sports teams the Clippers and Lakers of the National Basketball
Association and the Kings of the National Hockey League will play
in the Staples Center.
The figure for the new Mariners stadium is in the same ballpark
with the new Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco ($2.08 million a
year), the new Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix ($2.2 million) and the
remodeled Edison International Field in Anaheim ($2.5 million).
Those naming-rights deals all were consummated within the past
year.
Having the naming rights deal completed now allows the Mariners
to fully market other lucrative areas of the new ballpark, in
particular the 79 corporate suites, 352 Diamond Club seats, 4,222
Terrace Club and 966 charter seat licenses it hopes to sell before
the new stadium opens in 1999.
Questions about the M's deal had been circulating for the past
several months in meetings with the Public Facilities District, the
agency set up to oversee construction and manage the money
collected from taxes and other sources for the stadium.
Armstrong acknowledged that the process might have seemed
laborious, but the team received more than two dozen inquiries from
interested companies. That number then was winnowed down to about
seven companies under serious consideration, but Armstrong declined
to disclose the runners-up.
The main issue for the team, he said, was Safeco's strong
presence in the community and the fact that it is a national
company with headquarters in Seattle. Brenner also noted the
importance for a company with naming rights to have a strong
presence in the region of the facility. Without that, the name
might face public resistance.
One recent case in point is the negative reaction the University
of Washington athletic department has received this week after
announcing that it had effectively sold naming rights to the
remodeled Hec Edmunson Pavilion to Seafirst Bank in a $9 million
sponsorship package. Another case is the renaming of Jack Murphy
Stadium in San Diego (named after a longtime local sportswriter) to
Qualcomm Stadium for the Qualcomm communications company.
DENVER Anyone who thinks that John Thomson's shutout of the
Diamondbacks at Bank One Ballpark on April 1 was a fluke, better
think again.
He was perfect through 4 innings and went on to scatter four
hits and strike out a career-high 11 as Colorado (26-34) salvaged a
split of the four-game series with a 5-2 victory at Coors Field.
It was the second-lowest hit total allowed by the Rockies staff
at Coors Field. It was the third straight victory for Thomson (5-5)
and the third complete game of his career.
For Diamondbacks shortstop Jay Bell, it was the best of times
and it was the worst of times. He had the first hit off Thomson,
breaking the shutout with a two-out home run (his eighth) to left
field in the fifth inning, but also struck out twice.
As good as Thomson's location was, he also got help from plate
umpire Jim Quick, who had a liberal strike zone. Particularly
against Diamondbacks rookie first baseman Travis Lee, who struck
out three times.
Finally, Diamondbacks hitting coach Jim Presley had had enough.
He spoke more than volumes, barking at Quick from the dugout and
getting the thumb. He came out of the dugout to complete his
colorful diatribe before Showalter came out to escort him from the
field.
It was the second time a Diamondback had been ejected this
season. Center fielder Devon White was tossed on April 3 against
San Francisco for disagreeing with plate umpire Angel Hernandez on
his choice of strike calls.
There were some pitches thrown by Diamondbacks left-hander Omar
Daal that appeared to be in the same location as those from
Thomson, in some cases better, but Quick's right hand remained at
his side.
Showalter said previously that umpires were testing Lee, but
they appeared to back off for a while. They apparently have resumed
their efforts.
Daal (1-4) gave up single runs in the first, third and fourth
innings, then struck out five in a row.
The Diamondbacks pulled within 3-2 in the sixth when Kelly
Stinnett led off with a walk, was sacrificed to second by Daal and
scored on a triple to right by Andy Fox.
Taking a page out of the Larry Walker book from Wednesday night
and earlier Thursday night when he took extra bases on lethargic
Arizona outfielders, Fox stunned the Rockies' rocket-armed right
fielder by taking third base.
A fly ball to left field by White was too shallow for Fox to
score and the throw by Dante Bichette was on the money. Lee then
took a called third strike, which undoubtedly caused Presley's
blood to start boiling.
Daal gave Bichette more than credit in the Rockies' half of the
sixth. He gave him a good pitch to hit. Bichette hit a two-run
homer to left to make the score 5-2. 
SALT LAKE CITY Madness has become a way of life, a fishbowl of
groupies, microphones, leeches and distractions that would sink any
other outfit.
Until Wednesday, it had never reached the basketball floor. But
for the first time since Michael Jordan climbed the mountain, the
Bulls show signs of cracking.
After the Jazz squeezed out a victory in Game 1, fingers were
flying in all directions. Jordan blamed Scottie Pippen for not
knowing the play on a crucial 24-second violation. He said Luc
Longley acted like a 6-foot-5 guard. And in a snit of pretzel
logic, Pippen was angry that Longley deflected a pass, thereby
destroying his rhythm on an errant three-point shot that ended the
game.
There were signs of doubt entering the Finals. Strange words
never before heard from the defending champions. Jordan said he
could handle his career ending in defeat. Dennis Rodman said the
Bulls still would be winners even if they lose this series. Pippen
talked openly about being the underdog. In sum, it sounded very
much like reconciliation and resignation of the inevitable.
But the most telling moment occurred Wednesday, when Jordan
openly berated Pippen for not passing him the ball . . . after his
teammate nailed a three-pointer to tie the score. After the ensuing
timeout, Pippen rebelliously launched another three-pointer.
On Thursday, a bleary-eyed Rodman made it to practice on time
and the Bulls were trying to heal themselves. Jackson complained
that newspapers seem to print unflattering pictures of the Bulls
coach, so he smiled like a model, inviting a group photo shoot. And
when asked whether Pippen took an ill-advised three-pointer late in
the game, Pippen stuck his head through a curtain.
So Pippen and Jordan not only denied any bickering but laughed
like there wasn't a care in the world.
The Bulls know another defeat in Game 2 could be fatal. If they
lose again, they would have to win four of five games. Certainly
possible, except they've lost four of their past six.
Still, this is group that always comes through in moments like
this, prevailing when they are most vulnerable, when the madness
becomes a monsoon. But it has to end sometime.
Yes, it's been a long ride. And a long time since the Bulls were
in a predicament like this. Dan Bickley can be reached at dan.bickley(at)pni.com. 
SALT LAKE CITY While the Chicago Bulls snipe at each other,
the Utah Jazz has remained all quiet on the Wasatch Front.
And why not? Despite getting subpar performances from two of its
top three players Karl Malone and Jeff Hornacek in Game 1, Utah
leads the best-of-seven NBA Finals series, 1-0, going into Game 2
tonight at the Delta Center.
But the Jazz also knows that, to beat the Bulls, it's going to
need a lot more from Malone and Hornacek. John Stockton carried the
team, especially down the stretch, in Game 1.
Malone, who had a similarly poor performance in Game 1 of the
1997 Finals, made only 9 of 25 shots this year. He said he'll make
a few minor adjustments but expects his shots to start falling.
For Hornacek, who made only 2 10 shots, it's not so simple.
First, he has to expend a lot of energy trying to guard Bulls star
Michael Jordan.
Second, Hornacek is not healthy, even if he insists that he is.
Hornacek has had a chronically bad left knee, admitting that it has
been swelling off and on for the past seven seasons. This season,
he also has sore Achilles' tendons during the playoffs that have
limited his mobility and made it difficult for him to shoot his
jump shot with normal lift and rhythm.
And Hornacek really started wondering whether he's star-crossed
last week. With that 10-day respite, Hornacek not only had a rare
opportunity to let his body rest, he also had a chance to get some
work done around the house. It turned out to be a bad idea.
Hornacek took a dive, and and the ladder whacked him in the
head. He needed a half-dozen stitches.
Not as rough as the Bulls' start in this series, though. Jordan
scored 33 points and Scottie Pippen had 21, but neither shot the
ball well, and Pippen had five turnovers. And the rest of the Bulls
were mostly ineffective. Forward Toni Kukoc made only 4 of 12
shots. Guard Ron Harper scored four points and had only one assist
in 24 minutes.
What happened after that 6-5 loss to Fresno State on March 18,
the midpoint of the season, is why the Sun Devils will play for the
national title Saturday.
ASU went 18-9 in the second half primarily because its offense
kicked in gear. The Sun Devils scored 199 runs in the first half,
262 in the second. They had 281 hits in the first, 330 in the
second.
Shortstop Michael Collins' batting average leaped from .206 at
the midway point to .287 at the end of the regular season. Catcher
Jeremy Jones improved from .250 to .342; Moreno from .317 to .343;
and Casey Myers from .328 to .389.
In the series opener against California, Lowery allowed just two
hits and struck out 12 in seven innings as ASU won, 6-1.
Two days later, the Sun Devils rallied with six runs in the
ninth to beat the Bears, 7-6.
No recent cosmic discovery has generated as much excitement in
the scientific community as Thursday's confirmation that neutrinos
do indeed have mass and that they oscillate from one state to
another as they stream by the trillions from cosmic rays, from the
sun, from exploding stars known as supernovas, and from the decay
of other particles that make up every nucleus of every atom that
exists.
The eagerly awaited neutrino discoveries were announced Thursday
from Japan, where scientists from all over the world were gathered
to hear the news and to describe their own experiments hunting down
the elusive particles.
Scientists have been trying to study the neutrinos that zip
unscathed through Earth by capturing them in deep mines or creating
them though violent nuclear collisions at some of the world's
biggest atom-smashers.
 They are so fantastically small, so nearly weightless and so
electrically neutral that trillions of them can zip through every
human body every day without being felt. Even more of them
constantly stream unchanged through Earth without altering anything except, of course, when a few are trapped inside detection
devices like the one in Japan.
Filled with 121/2 tons of highly purified water and surrounded
by 13,000 photomultiplier tubes and electronic data recorders, the
chamber insulated from any possible interference by other nuclear
particles captured a few elusive neutrinos that had been created
by the interaction between cosmic rays and Earth's atmosphere. The
experiment then detected their oscillation rate from one state to
another as the changes yielded tiny flashes of radiant energy.
To John G. Learned, a University of Hawaii physicist and member
of the research team, the results are virtually unprecedented and
an extraordinary contribution to science's fundamental insights
into the past and present of the universe.
That theory, a concept first proposed by Albert Einstein and
often reiterated by British astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, seeks
to find a single set of equations that can explain all the
fundamental forces in the universe: gravity, electromagnetism, and
the strong and weak interactive forces among subnuclear particles.
In that standard model, all those particles except the neutrinos
have mass, but now the model will have to be revised if the new
discovery is validated.
The Japanese experiment did not actually measure the mass of the
neutrinos it detected, but instead it enabled the experimenters to
calculate the tiny difference between the mass of neutrinos in each
state just as they oscillated to another state.
As Learned explained it, those oscillations altered each
neutrino known as a muon neutrino into a new and different state
called a tau neutrino. At most the actual mass of each of those
neutrino states was an almost infinitely small fraction of the
total mass of an entire electron, the lightest of the traditional
fundamental particles.
But at best, he said in an interview, only about 20 percent of
the entire mass of the universe is made up of neutrinos, while
barely 5 percent is the mass of ordinary matter we can see or touch
or feel or observe through telescopes. All the rest about 75
percent of the mass of the universe must be cold and dark and
wholly unknown so far, Silk said.
The rookie first baseman twice was called out on a strikes by
home plate umpire Jim Quick on Thursday night. Each time the third
strike appeared to be several inches off the plate.
To his credit, Lee said nothing, continuing to show far more
resolve and cool-headedness than most 23-year-olds could display.
Lee has got to be burning on the inside. Somehow, he refuses to
show it on the outside.
Which is exactly where one of baseball's most deep-seeded
problems lies. Players and staff cannot say anything disparaging
about an umpire for fear of suffering severe consequences.
Hitting coach Jim Presley finally did say something when a
seventh-inning pitch to Colorado's Greg Colbrunn was called a ball,
even though it was practically in the exact location where Lee was
rung up.
Presley's commentary came from the dugout, making it impossible
for anyone at Coors Field to know anything was said. Nonetheless,
Quick, ejected Presley, who then jumped onto the field and let the
veteran umpire know, face to face, what he thought of the strike
zone.
Talk frankly with anyone involved in the major leagues, and one
common subject arises the lack of accountability of big-league
umpires.
Once a person becomes a major league umpire, it's the equivalent
of being named a Supreme Court justice; if you want the job, it's
yours for life. Try to name the last umpire who was fired?
Until American and National League Presidents Gene Budig and Len
Coleman, respectively, decide to truly take control of the umpiring
the charade will continue.
Baseball is the only sport that does not use the merit system to
reward its best officials for use in the playoffs, preferring to
use a rotation basis where every umpire works the postseason once
his turn comes up.
The NBA selects its best referees for the playoffs. The NBA also
gets rid of its two or three worst referees after every season,
which alone should get every referee to be at his best every night.
Players are not forbidden from criticizing umpires, but know
that if they do, they can expect to be branded by the close-knit
fraternity of umpires.
In the NBA, a player can talk with a referee and even get this disagree in a civil manner without worrying about being ejected.
Not so in baseball, where nearly every umpire views any
disagreement as a question of integrity.
It's an age-old problem in baseball but one that seems to be
getting worse with each season. The gap between umpires and
managers/players seems to be growing.
Baseball needs to realize a real problem exists. The leagues can
make a stand to take control of the umpiring.
As it stands, the umpires union has won so many concessions from
Major League Baseball that it is stronger than the leagues. There
is no way a sport's officials should have more control than the
league.
If for no other reason than perception alone, the leagues should
strip away some of the power the umpires have. Because the best
clubs advance past the regular season, the leagues should instill a
system where the best umpires work the playoffs.
In addition, a system that sent the worst umpires back to the
minors should be implemented. That would get some of the lazy
umpires to work as hard as they did when they first made it to the
majors.
After all, the big leagues are a place where the best players
stick around. If Travis Lee goes into a swoon and cannot find his
swing, you can bet the Diamondbacks will send him to the minors.
What would be the big problem with sending an umpire or two down
if they aren't doing their job up to a major league standard? Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail. 
NORTH BERKELEY, Calif. From his study here, the Rev. W. Mark
Richardson sits amid the ivy-covered seminaries of the Graduate
Theological Union, enjoying an inspiring view of the Campanile, the
symbolic center of the University of California.
Richardson directs the Center for Theology and the Natural
Sciences, which Sunday convenes a four-day conference where
physicists, biologists, cosmologists and computer scientists from
around the world will talk about finding the hand of God in
everything from the genetic code to the Big Bang.
The conference, which runs through Wednesday at UC Berkeley's
Wheeler Auditorium, was designed for scientists who are also
believers in one of the three Abrahamic faiths Judaism,
Christianity and Islam.
Peacocke, a theologian at the University of Oxford and a former
genetics researcher at UC Berkeley, has witnessed almost
unimaginable advances in that field during the past four decades.
At the same time, scientific breakthroughs like the mapping of
the entire human genome pose new challenges for moral theologians.
For example, what are the implications for church teachings on
homosexuality if scientists establish a genetic basis for sexual
orientation?
Another conference speaker, Dr. Carl Feit, worked as a research
scientist at the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research
before accepting an appointment as a professor of health sciences
at Yeshiva University in New York, where Feit is free to mingle his
scientific research and Jewish faith.
Feit cited a growing body of research showing that religious
faith may strengthen the immune system and help the body fight
disease.
Richardson did not invite Phillip Johnson, a law professor at UC
Berkeley and an outspoken critic of evolutionary theory. In an
interview, Johnson said the fuzzy mix of science and spirituality
at conferences like the upcoming Berkeley gathering produce neither
good science nor good theology.
Johnson will have many more opportunities for debating these
folks. Last week, the John Templeton Foundation, which funded the
conference, announced that it was giving another $12.6 million to
the Center for the Theology and the Natural Sciences to develop
programs in science and religion at universities worldwide.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.
At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.
The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.
The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.
Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.
Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.
If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.
The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.
The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.
No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.
And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.
To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.
Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.
On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.
On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.
Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.
To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.
Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?
Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.
On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.
Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.
What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.
So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.
In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.
This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.
Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.
Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.
The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.
On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.
In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.
But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.
The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.
It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.
At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.
The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.
The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.
Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.
Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.
If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.
The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.
The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.
No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.
And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.
To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.
Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.
On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.
On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.
Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.
To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.
Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?
Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.
On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.
Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.
What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.
So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.
In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.
This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.
Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.
Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.
The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.
On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.
In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.
But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.
The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.
WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.
That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.
These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.
These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.
In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.
This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.
That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.
HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.
A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.
In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.
The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.
The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.
The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development a so-called incidental take permit that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.
But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.
The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.
The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.
Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.
Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.
Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.
But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.
The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.
Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.
The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.
But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.
Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.
The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.
Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.
For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.
WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.
That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.
These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.
These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.
In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.
This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.
That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.
HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.
A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.
In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.
The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.
The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.
The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development a so-called incidental take permit that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.
But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.
The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.
The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.
Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.
Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.
Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.
But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.
The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.
Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.
The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.
But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.
Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.
The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.
Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.
For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.
THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.
More than 100 apple trees some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.
A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.
There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.
And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.
As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.
Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.
For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.
The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.
As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.
Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.
Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.
During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.
Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.
By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.
Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.
It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.
Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.
Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.
Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.
Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.
Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.
At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.
In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.
We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.
Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.
THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.
More than 100 apple trees some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.
A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.
There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.
And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.
As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.
Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.
For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.
The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.
As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.
Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.
Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.
During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.
Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.
By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.
Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.
It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.
Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.
Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.
Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.
Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.
Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.
At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.
In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.
We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.
Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.
Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.
To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.
A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.
Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.
Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.
In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.
Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.
In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.
They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.
And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.
Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru just beetles, just
one tree.
Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.
As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.
Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.
One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.
Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.
But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.
There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.
The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.
Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.
Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.
The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.
Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.
Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.
To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.
A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.
Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.
Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.
In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.
Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.
In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.
They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.
And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.
Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru just beetles, just
one tree.
Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.
As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.
Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.
One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.
Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.
But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.
There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.
The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.
Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.
Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.
The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.
Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.
In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.
The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.
But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.
Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?
What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.
Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.
Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.
Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.
That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.
In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.
You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.
In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.
What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.
That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.
Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.
If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.
The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.
But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.
Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?
What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.
Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.
Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.
Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.
That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.
In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.
You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.
In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.
What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.
That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.
Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.
If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
CALIF-POLITICS (Berkeley, Calif.) As the dust settles from the
Democratic gubernatorial primary, we Californians should
congratulate ourselves on finally learning not to be duped by
television candidates. By MICHAEL SIGNER.
NY-LTGOV (New York) Mary Donohue, the former prosecutor and
judge, cast herself as a compassionate and loyal sidekick, a
lieutenant governor who is willing to follow, not lead. She is
running with Gov. George Pataki. By TRACEY TULLY.
BODY-COUNT (Albany, N.Y.) Dr. Michael Baden has conducted
20,000 autopsies in his career. But Baden is best known for being a
key figure in examining some of the most spectacular deaths of this
and other generations John F. Kennedy, civil rights leaders Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. and Medgar Evers, comedian John Belushi and
Czar Nicholas of Russia. By MARK McGUIRE. (For release Sunday, June
7)
WOMEN-CLIMBERS (Tiburon, Calif.) Nancy Knoble will head a
three-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,
the tallest mountain in North America. She's leading a particularly
resolute band of 12 five are breast cancer survivors, and the
remaining climbers are young women determined to defeat the disease
that afflicts one in eight women. By ELIZABETH FERNANDEZ.
MEDAL-OF-HONOR (Albany, N.Y.) Behind nearly every Medal of
Honor is a gripping story of the valor that earned this nation's
highest award. But in its own right, the Medal of Honor itself has
a storied past in its rise to what is now considered the world's
most prestigious decoration. By BRENDAN LYONS.
TRANSSEXUAL-COP (San Francisco) A transsexual trying to join
San Francisco's police force has filed a $3 million discrimination
claim with the city after her appeal of a failed psychological test
was turned down. By RAY DELGADO.
AIRPORT-EXPANSION (San Francisco) Kicking off what is likely
to become an environmental war over the sanctity of mud, the San
Francisco International Airport has announced it will seek to
expand its runways a job that could entail filling a major
portion of the Bay for the first time in 35 years. By ERIN
McCORMICK.
COMPUTER-COLUMN (Atlanta) Each year at the Electronic
Entertainment Expo, better known as E3, there is some easily
defined trend, something that a journalist looking for a snappy
lead paragraph or pithy sound bite could latch onto. This time,
though, E3 was about evolution instead of revolution. And it's the
computer and video game industry that's evolving by growing up. By
DWIGHT SILVERMAN
EMPLOYMENT-QUESTIONS (San Francisco) A security firm that
asked job applicants a series of questions probing their political
beliefs settled a class-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million,
potentially changing the way employers around the nation screen job
candidates. By RAY DELGADO.
BBA-FEUD (San Francisco) American League president Gene Budig
will take a break from his usual regimen of signing baseballs and
getting into ballparks for free to hand out enormous suspensions,
fines and other spankings to both the Kansas City Royals and
Anaheim Angels for their beanball war. By RAY RATTO.
You should know the identity of anybody who would do something
so unspeakably vile. I can't even describe to you in detail either
the images he created or the words he used.
But he's only 17, and his grandfather called me in tears,
begging me not to name him. And, given the fact that no crime has
been committed and that none of the kid's victims has been left
dead or bleeding, I hadn't planned on naming the kid anyway.
So, let's just call him Beavis although, once you hear this,
you'll realize what a slur that is on that repugnant cartoon
character. Compared to this kid, Beavis and Butt-head come off like
Wally and the Beav.
I will name the school district, however. That's North Colonie,
an upscale suburban district just outside New York's state capital.
One district official I spoke to seemed horrified that anybody in
the public you know, like the taxpayers who pay the bills might
learn that something like this can happen in a classy school like
Shaker High.
Our young friend Beavis is computer literate, so his problem
seems to be something other than stupidity. He is, according to his
grandfather, quite sensitive and easily wounded. Apparently, it
doesn't occur to him that other people can be wounded, too. Or,
more likely, he doesn't much care.
Beavis had several of the girls bragging about sex with
teachers, about getting pregnant and having abortions, about their
affection for exotic sex acts. Thoughtfully, he also included their
e-mail addresses.
The girls found out about it, of course. So did the school. The
district saw it as sexual harassment. The kid was suspended for
five days. The district is considering more action against him, but
it has no authority to expel him from school.
In the perpetually benevolent state of New York, expulsion from
school doesn't exist. Every New York citizen is guaranteed a free
public education until age 21, regardless of behavior. By law, the
maximum suspension lasts only a year, and the kid gets private
tutoring at public expense.
The cops did pay Beavis a visit. They did their best to scare
the hell out of him, but there's nothing they can really do to him.
If the kid had sent this material directly to the girls, that would
have constituted aggravated harassment. But sending false,
defamatory filth out to the universe via the Internet violates no
criminal law of the State of New York.
What Beavis did, however, does seem to constitute libel. That's
according to my home newspaper's hot-shot First Amendment lawyer,
Mike (The Hammer) Grygiel. So, the girls could sue the kid and take
everything he has. Given his age, that's probably not much.
But if some jury awarded the mud-splattered girls nothing more
than Beavis' computer and his collection of dirty pictures, they'd
be doing humanity an enormous favor.
Water managers and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have crafted
a $7.5 billion plan for creating a healthier, more natural
Everglades while expanding South and Central Florida's water supply
during the next half-century.
But even supporters acknowledged that the blueprint needs a lot
of work before they can present it to Congress next summer.
The plan would be the linchpin of what water managers call the
largest, most complex ecological restoration ever. Yet it faces
skepticism from some state and federal scientists, who say the plan
would go too far in serving farms and cities without fully
restoring the Everglades' natural flow.
The price tag, based on the project's first detailed cost
rundown, is considerably higher than the corps' earlier estimates
of $3 billion to $5 billion. As a comparison, $7 billion is the
state's annual Medicaid budget to provide medical care for 1.3
million people.
If Congress approves the plan, corps officials expect the
federal government to pay half the bill during the next 20 to 50
years. The rest would come from some undetermined mix of state,
county, municipal and regional sources, which could include
property taxes or surcharges on water bills.
Environmentalists still are studying whether the proposal would
do all they hope. They say the region's future depends on the
plan's central concept, an overhaul of the 1,600-mile-long drainage
network that the corps built after World War II.
Corps ecosystem restoration chief Stuart Appelbaum(cq) said the
proposal would provide the tools for helping both humans and
nature. His agency and others will try in coming weeks to make it
even better for the Everglades and waterways such as the St. Lucie
River.
Further changes would come during the next 20 years as the corps
and the South Florida Water Management District start building and
operating the project.
The proposal would rely on a vast network of reservoirs, storage
wells and marshes. That labyrinth would occupy 286 square miles equivalent to 8 1/2 Manhattans while storing enough water to fill
Pro Player Stadium more than 1,300 times.
The extra water would help feed the faucets, toilets, swimming
pools and lawn sprinklers of a 16-county region where the
population is expected to more than double to 12 million by the
year 2050.
Engineers say the water also would allow the reflooding of
parched stretches of the Everglades when the park needs it. The
storage capacity would provide a place to put unneeded water during
gluts, rather than dumping them into the Everglades or Lake
Okeechobee and wreaking havoc on wildlife.
But scientists at Everglades National Park and the state Game
and Fresh Water Fish Commission said the plan still would leave
large areas of marsh with too much or too little water. Park
scientists said the proposal also would rely too little on natural
flow and too much on pumps, canals and floodgates, and would give
the most reliable water sources to cities and suburbs.
But water district biologist John Ogden said the plan would aid
a wide variety of wildlife. For instance, it would add months to
the nesting season for wood storks and other wading birds, whose
numbers have declined by 90 percent in recent decades.
Public water utility directors and state agriculture officials
were happier than environmentalists with the plan's assurances that
they would have enough water most of the time. But sugar growers
south of Lake Okeechobee vehemently object to a provision that
would use 94 square miles of their cane fields for some of the
proposed reservoirs.
Likewise, utility officials question the proposal's reliance on
vast underground storage wells, a technology that no one has ever
used on such a scale.
QuickReadCongress has ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
to come up with a plan to restore the Everglades by overhauling the
drainage system of South and Central Florida. A $7.5 billion
proposal would accomplish these steps during the next 20 to 50
years:
Store more water: Engineers would build 286 square miles of
reservoirs and filter marshes on all sides of Lake Okeechobee and
along the Everglades' eastern fringes. They could store as much as
467 billion gallons that otherwise would flow out to sea.
Try new technology: Hundreds of storage wells could trap 1.7
billion gallons a day underground during rainy years, then give it
back during droughts. The average yearly yield could be 130 billion
gallons.
Go with the flow: The corps would bulldoze some interior
Everglades canals and levees to return some of the natural,
broad-flowing sheets of water to its marshes.
What's next: The corps and the South Florida Water Management
District expect to unveil a revised proposal in mid-October, hold
public hearings in November and submit a final version to Congress
by July 1, 1999. Want to learn more? The corps' proposal, studies
and other documents are on the World Wide Web at
http://www.restudy.org
Hopes for a reunion between Barbara Kurth and the daughters
taken from her in 1979 appeared dim Thursday as the kidnap saga
involving her ex-husband Stephen Fagan played out on national
television for the second night in a row.
One night after Fagan blasted her on ABC's Prime Time Live as a
drunkard who had endangered their daughters' lives, Kurth defended
herself on CNN's Larry King Live. The back-to-back interviews shed
little new light, but turned up the heat in a case that has drawn
national attention since Fagan's April 16 arrest at his Palm Beach
mansion on 18 1/2-year-old Massachusetts kidnap charges.
Fagan said he spirited the girls to Florida and changed their
identities to rescue them from Kurth. He points to affidavits from
three of her neighbors at the time who said she neglected the girls
and often appeared drunk. Fagan also cites two driving under the
influence convictions against Kurth from 1979 as evidence of a
drinking problem.
On Prime Time Live Wednesday, the daughters, now 23 and 21 and
supportive of their father, criticized Kurth for not reaching out
to them privately.
Kurth said Fagan had poisoned the daughters against her and
wouldn't allow them to talk to their mother. But Fagan's current
wife, Harriet Martin, said Thursday that Fagan hasn't tried to
block a reunion.
Senior Pastor Jack Humbert and Rob Brandon, owner of BNI
Enterprises, have prepared a script and overseen rehearsals. With
showtime approaching, the duo is dreaming of how their venture
could shape this community's image for years to come.
Humbert expects to sell all 650 tickets available at $12.50
each, and he is confident one of four cable networks that have
shown interest in a 13-episode package will pick up the gospel
music show. He won't reveal the names of the networks for fear of
jeopardizing negotiations but said they are based in Texas,
California, Florida and Nashville.
Charles Gates, a gospel music promoter who lives in Austin, said
the program could succeed here if done correctly.
Brandon, a music promoter, shares Humbert's vision and energy
for the project, even though he has a limited religious background.
He said he hopes the television production will help raise money
to complete an 1,100-seat football stadium for the private school
next door. A lighted baseball and softball complex also are
envisioned for Hilltop Christian Academy, and Humbert said he wants
eventually to build assisted-living homes on the 40-acre campus.
It's all part of a master plan that began 20 years ago when he left
his executive office in a Chicago skyscraper to build a church on
the hill along U.S. 183 overlooking Cedar Park.
A neighbor described Kip Kinkel as an all-American kid, and by
appearances it was so: close-cropped red hair and freckles, right
off a cereal box. But the day witnesses said he shot 51 rounds into
a crowded school cafeteria, he also was an accused felon.
It was the home where investigators would find Kinkel's dead
parents, and five bombs that the boy had stashed to protect himself
from the monsters under his bed.
Yes, it was more serious than it seemed when police in
Springfield, Ore., released Kinkel to his parents' custody after
arresting him at school for buying a stolen handgun from a
classmate.
Horrible carnage aside, one of the scariest circumstances in
this tale is the matter-of-fact disposition of what is, or should
be, a most serious crime carrying a gun on a school campus.
In Kinkel's case it was two crimes, possession and theft by
receiving. And yet he went home. I'm trying to imagine an adult
offender who, having been charged with two felonies, could expect
to be home by dinner.
This brings up the fact that many rural counties don't even have
juvenile detention centers. (That wasn't a factor in the Kinkel
case. Springfield had that option available for him.) In too many
cases, because those counties can't afford juvenile detention sites
or can't find a place to have offenders detained, kids like Kip go
home.
Currently a bill in Congress seeks to put an imprint on juvenile
justice that sounds tough but would backfire. One controversial
ingredient would allow local governments to house young offenders
in jails, abolishing a standard that for 24 years has kept young
offenders and older ones apart.
This is portrayed as a get-serious approach to juvenile crime.
Actually it is an incentive for local governments to keep doing
things as cheaply as possible and to not make needed investments in
juvenile detention, probation and counseling.
What would happen in such a tightwad community in the case of
Kip Kinkel? Sure, you want to be tough with serious, hardened
juvenile offenders. But you'd be reluctant to put a first-timer, an
All-American, freckle-faced kid with good parents, behind jailhouse
bars.
These columns for release the weekend of Saturday, June 6, 1998,
are moving today to clients of the New York Times News Service.
All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category. If you
have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox News
Service, at 404-526-5456.
GLASS-COLUMN WASHINGTON Regarding India, George Tenet, the
nation's spy chief, told the Senate Intelligence Committee that he
would try to do better. One way to start is to have some of the
folks who deal with the region, home to a fifth of the world's
people, bookmark the Times of India newspaper on their Internet
browsers. (Glass, Cox News Service) MOVED.
TEEPEN-COLUMN Nazi gold, more than 50 years after World War II
and the Holocaust ended, remains molten. It burns the conscience.
Swiss culpability is no longer at serious issue. Swiss honor and
justice very much are. (Teepen, Cox News Service) MOVED THURSDAY.
KLEINBERG-COLUMN If all the tax money garnered from cigarette
sales went to cancer research and why don't they do that? the
tobacco people still would find some other approach to blow smoke
in your face. (Kleinberg, Cox News Service) MOVED THURSDAY.
MURRAY-COLUMN Reader mail, plus a joke: What do you get when
you mix Viagra with Rogaine? For answer, see column. (Murray, Cox
News Service)
YOUNG-COLUMN What would happen in a tightwad community in the
case of Kip Kinkel? Sure, you want to be tough with serious,
hardened juvenile offenders. But you'd be reluctant to put a
first-timer, an All-American, freckle-faced kid with good parents,
behind jailhouse bars. And so you wouldn't. Until he sprayed a
school cafeteria with bullets. (Young, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.
These feature stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,
June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times
News Service.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
BLACKWHITE On June 13, Joel Bethea and Kelvin Lawrence will
celebrate their high school graduations. They admit it wasn't
always easy being a white face in a black crowd or vice versa. But
they didn't just survive their four years of high school, they
thrived. (Harrison, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3.
TRAVEL-RANCH Most of us end up driving across the country at
least once in our lives, and that usually means driving through
Texas which often means driving through its Panhandle, of which
Amarillo is the capital. There're a number of uncommon sights to
see on your way through here. But there's an even more
extraordinary set of sights to break up this endlessly ordinary
terrain: Stanley Marsh's outdoor art. (Jubera, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3. EMBARGOED UNTIL 6/7.
TRAVEL-RANCHTOUR If you're driving through the Texas
Panhandle, here's a rundown of what you can see: (list follows).
(Jubera, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3. EMBARGOED UNTIL
6/7.
EVERGLADE-CONSERVATION Water managers and the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers have crafted a $7.5 billion plan for creating a
healthier, more natural Everglades while expanding South and
Central Florida's water supply during the next half-century. But
even supporters acknowledged that the blueprint needs a lot of work
before they can present it to Congress next summer. (King, Palm
Beach Post) MOVED.
We are fortunate enough to have this gift of love which is like
a precious plant. One just can't accept it, leave it, and think
it's going to grow by itself. Even after 50 years we must keep
watering it, to look after it, and nurture it. This I know we will
do.
I found Weeks' words in a note I opened last May as I sorted
through the hundreds of letters submitted in conjunction with our
annual Mother of the Year contest.
Weeks, 71, of Washington Twp. is an engineer who worked 46 years
for NCR in Dayton before he retired in 1989.
To his day , June 5, 1998, is the 50th anniversary of the
marriage of Don Weeks, and his wife, Virginia, who is 70. So this
is an appropriate day to put a spotlight on them.
Mrs. Weeks said she is not at all surprised that her husband's
words are imaginative, sensitive and somewhat poetic.
The Weeks have two grown children, both married. A daughter in
Beavercreek has two children and their son in Canada has four
children , the youngest of them 13-year-old twins .
The family plans to have a reunion in July to celebrate the
Weeks' 50th anniversary. But Don also plans to take his bride to
dinner. He said he plans to read some thoughts to her, doing it
quietly so other diners won't be disturbed.
I love you: For being a terrific wife and a wonderful mother
when it hasn't been easy. For helping, supporting, and taking care
of me when such was sorely needed. For creating and keeping an
immaculate, warm and cheerful home. And for the fanatistic life we
have had.
He plans to close out with the sentiment, Virginia, I pray we
have many more happy years together. It is with these thoughts I
extend my love to you, on this, one of the greatest days of my
life. Happy 50th Wedding Anniversary. With all my love, Don.
Written on the white paper was the name of a former altar boy
from Boynton Beach who was struggling to overcome the torment of
his childhood.
The money was left by Rev. J. Keith Symons, bishop of the Palm
Beach Diocese. He told the troubled man's family it came from his
heart and out of his pocket. The parents told him another priest
had assaulted their son, and Symons said he wanted to help.
As Symons was making the weekly payments, the mother's two sons,
now in their 30s, were giving prosecutors sworn statements in a
lurid sexual molestation case in St. Petersburg.
Rev. Rocco Charles D'Angelo was being accused by five former
altar boys of assaulting them in the 1960s and 1970s. The boys said
in court papers D'Angelo abused them while he was at St. Mark's
Church in Boynton Beach. Records show D'Angelo admitted being a
molester, sometimes assaulting boys while wearing his priestly
vestments.
Symons was the chancellor of the St. Petersburg diocese from
1971-81 when D'Angelo was moved there from Miami. Symons was the
keeper of the paperwork, the official church records. He was the
administrator who admitted receiving a letter describing D'Angelo's
history as a pedophile in South Florida.
Joseph Divito, general counsel to the Diocese of St. Petersburg,
did not return repeated telephone calls Thursday. Symons, church
officials say, is undergoing psychological treatment at an
undisclosed site.
On Tuesday, he resigned as bishop of the Palm Beach diocese,
admitting he like D'Angelo, his subordinate had molested altar
boys decades ago.
Symons' departure comes a week after Sidaway announced he'd
settled a lawsuit against the church in the D'Angelo case. Sidaway
is one of at least eight men who say the priest molested them.
Sidaway sued Symons, the Diocese of Palm Beach and the
Archdiocese of Miami in 1996. In court documents, the church later
admitted to the sexual assaults and to placing D'Angelo in
treatment. The church admitted promising victims' parents the
priest would be sent where he could not bother children; instead,
D'Angelo spent 25 years in the Tampa Bay area.
In November 1975, D'Angelo had been in St. Petersburg for seven
years and wanted his affiliation officially transferred from Miami,
according to church documents.
Symons wrote Archbishop Coleman F. Carroll of Miami; the Miami
chancellor wrote back to Symons' supervisor, the bishop of St.
Petersburg, explaining the circumstances of D'Angelo's departure
from South Florida.
The Boynton Beach mother, who asks that her name be withheld,
said her son went to the Palm Beach Diocese in the summer of 1995
after decades of emotional problems. Symons paid him about $725
cash in all in weekly installments for therapy. He left it at the
desk outside his office at St. Ignatius Cathedral on Military Trail
in Palm Beach Gardens.
Citing pastoral confidentiality, Symons declined comment three
years ago when the payments were being made and later when they
were mentioned in sworn statements to prosecutors.
Three suits remain pending against the Diocese of St.
Petersburg, accusing its officials of knowing about D'Angelo's past
but allowing him in the community anyway.
Sidaway, who was first to come forward as victim and plaintiff,
has settled his suit against the church out of court. He is
continuing a separate case against D'Angelo, who is retired and
believed to be in a Maryland psychiatric hospital.
For years, the Oregon couple known in cyberspace as Hubby and
Wifey had a little secret they liked to take video and still
pictures of each other when they made love.
But their private pastime became public about a year ago when
Hubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on an
Internet discussion group.
They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50
each. They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it's
a large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurt
their image as earnest amateurs.
Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used are
among hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude and
sexually explicit images of themselves online.
They aren't professionals. These aren't porn stars or topless
dancers. They are everyday people who like to show off, and like
Hubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.
Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 years
old. He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom with
three young children.
One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussion
forums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic. Some of
the groups are set up exclusively for the posting of erotic
photographs.
The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internet
that combines graphics, text, sound and video. There, a growing
number of people who don't consider themselves part of the sex
business are setting up Web sites that feature photos of
themselves.
Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internet
to turn a tidy profit. Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-based
market research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in
$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in
2001.
The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where most
of the amateurs begin. Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usually
through an expression of exhibitionism that generates positive
feedback.
Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn't
upset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids. And she was
particularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from people
wanting more.
Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in the
Usenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos of
the couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-quality
video camera.
But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paid
an experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, which
will be used to sell their videos in the near future.
Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,
was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in
1995. Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days when
she was designing the site herself.
Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details of
someone's life or planned strip shows.
Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains a
tongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature women
who take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge money
for it. Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,
enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.
DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, but
he soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to include
them on his pages.
For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kind
of safe underground where they can do so without being seen by the
mainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.
Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoring
for more. The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, charging
visitors $14.95 a month.
But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures on
Usenet. Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accused
F1guru of taking advantage of her.
Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from their
children. And Wifey worries that her religious parents will find
out. If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Net
will likely be over.
ATLANTA Each year at the Electronic Entertainment Expo, better
known as E3, there's some easily defined trend, something that a
journalist looking for a snappy lead paragraph or pithy sound bite
could latch onto.
This time, though, E3 was about evolution instead of revolution.
The computer and video game industry, which combined is now bigger
in dollars spent than the motion picture business, is either just
stopping to catch its breath or is in serious danger of maturing.
E3, which is now 5 years old, is easily my favorite trade show.
It's smaller than the megashows such as Fall Comdex and PC Expo,
where productivity often takes a back seat to the sheer logistics
of moving around.
Having spent three days last week chatting up these folks and
looking at their wares, I've come to the following conclusions:
 3-D video cards have come of age. The first crop of video
cards that could use 3-D graphics was disappointing, to say the
least. Even the second generation lacked the punch necessary to
make them must-have components in consumer systems.
But this latest crop, as well as some that will be available
later this year, make good on the original promise. Video card
chipsets such as Intel Corp.'s i740 and the current 3-D champion,
3Dfx Interactive's Voodoo2, make it possible for designers and
artists to fulfill almost any vision they have.
The ability to do realistic graphics is having a major impact on
game design. The best example I saw was the latest version of
Sierra Online's popular adventure game series, King's Quest.
Subtitled Mask of Eternity, it abandons the series' previous visual
style of Disney-like cartoon characters in favor of a realistic,
3-D design. Sierra's artists and legendary game designer Roberta
Williams are comfortable enough with the quality of this look to
have it become a part of one of the company's franchise titles.
Games such as Ion Storm's Daikatana created by John Romero,
the id Software co-founder who was responsible for the game design
in Doom and Quake Sierra's Half-Life and GT Interactive's Unreal
show what happens when incredibly talented artists are turned loose
with a technology that has almost no visual boundaries. The worlds
these people are creating constitute a new art form, a kind of
living comic book.
 Stories are becoming more important. While adventure games
have always relied on plot and characters to draw players into
their worlds, action and strategy games have not. In the past, this
genre has been typified by the kill-it-if-it-moves philosophy of
game play.
In Half-Life, for example, one of the creatures you confront is
blind, but has excellent hearing. All you see of the monster is a
set of huge, clawed tentacles that feel their way around the room.
If you run in firing, you're toast the thing will pin you with
its claws. The game also has other, computer-controlled humans who
will give you vital information. If you kill them or let a
monster take them down you may miss something vital.
 Every game is multiplayer, but who's playing? Game developers
and publishers continue to be frustrated by their seeming inability
to make money with online, multiplayer games. The head of
Electronic Arts complained during an executive forum at E3 that the
company's Ultima Online an online-only, role-playing game that
can host thousands of players at once brought in just $150,000
but cost $10 million to develop and maintain.
Publishers and analysts say the problem is that consumers see
online PC gaming as a cumbersome process many people who own
games with online components don't utilize them because they're
intimidated by trying to get them to work. Others complain that
there's so much free online play available such as games like
Quake and Quake II, in which anyone with a PC and a fast Net
connection can host a multiplayer game that people are reluctant
to pay for the same experience.
 Tradition is not dead. Developers have discovered that
mainstream computer users are most comfortable with traditional
titles they know from classic games. Hasbro Interactive, which was
a nonentity in the game community just 18 months ago, has become a
major force by reviving familiar names such as Monopoly, Boggle,
Scrabble and Yahtzee.
Other publishers are following suit, and also are mining video
game nostalgia. One title drawing a lot of interest was a 3-D
version of Pac-Man, the 1980s icon. Would I sound too much like a
digital fuddy if I admitted I liked the original version a lot
better?
 Dwight Silverman can receive electronic mail via the Internet.
Address your comments and questions to
dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000 and enter
access code 1001. XXXX END OF STORY 
Q: Remember PC Tools for Windows? The file manager had a viewer
so you could toggle through files in many formats and see the
contents, then open, copy or delete. There was no waiting, and no
programs were launched for viewing. What current program offers the
same features for Windows 95?
PC Tools, from Central Point Software, was easily the best
Windows 3.1 and MS-DOS utility of its day. It competed with
Symantec's Norton Utilities, until Symantec bought Central Point
Software and discontinued the line.
PC Tools for Windows had two great features an option that let
you set up multiple desktops, and a file manager that let you
instantly view a data file. Those technologies found their way into
an early Windows 95 product, Norton Navigator. But that product had
a lot of problems, most notably the fact that it bogged down even
the most powerful of computers. Norton Navigator has since been
discontinued.
However, there is a product that's similar to PC Tools for
Windows. Mijenix's PowerDesk Utilities 98 has a lot of the same
features, including a file manager with a built-in file viewer. It
also includes the multi-desktop feature found on PC Tools. Best of
all, it won't bog down your system.
PowerDesk Utilities began its life about the same time as Norton
Navigator, as an early Windows 95 product from a company called
MicroHelp. That's the same company that developed UnInstaller, the
original third-party uninstall program for Windows. Mijenix now
owns PowerDesk and has done an excellent job of tweaking and tuning
it.
Q: I recently learned how to build Web pages, and I've put
together a nice little home page for myself. Now I want to put it
up on the Internet, but I'm kind of at a loss. How do I do this?
I'm on America Online do I need to switch to a different provider
to make my Web page available?
A: One of the best-kept secrets about America Online is that the
service gives each subscriber two megabytes of server space per
screen name for a personal home page. Since AOL allows you to have
up to five screen names, you could command as much as 10 megabytes
of server space!
You can post your Web site several ways. If you do a keyword MY
PLACE, you'll find an area that lets you post Web pages you've
created on your own. You can upload the files here, one at a time,
until you've delivered all your graphics and pages to the server.
But AOL also has an area called Personal Publisher (use that as
your keyword), which automates the process of building a Web site
by using a template. If you're a novice, this is the place for you.
You don't need to know anything about Hypertext Markup Language, or
HTML, the code in which Web pages are written. Building your own
page is as simple as filling in a form.
Once you upload your page, it's located either at the
members.aol.com or the home.aol.com server the system will tell
you where. You can then point your friends to the site by telling
them to look at the name of the server, followed by a slash and
your screen name. For example, if your screen name is JoeSmith and
your page was on the members.aol.com server, your site's address
would be members.aol.com/joesmith.
 Got a question about your computer? Dwight Silverman can receive
electronic mail via the Internet. Address your comments and
questions to dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000
and enter access code 1001. XXXX END OF STORY 
SAN FRANCISCO The Treasure Island School has 460 kids in
kindergarten through seventh grade, with an eighth grade and 140
more kids to come next year. All students are bused from San
Francisco's Tenderloin, Chinatown and Mission neighborhoods.
I just adopted this school. It's on an island paradise, except
it's called Willigan's Island (as in Mayor Willie Brown, who has
kept the island off-limits to the general public). That means these
kids need help. It's either me or Quentin Kopp.
You see, the kids are fenced in on an acre of asphalt a
softball's throw from palms and playing fields. But they can't play
there without clearance from the island administration.
They plant little gardens in boxes inside the fence, keep tabs
on the robin in its nest, and the kindergartners play in a patch of
weeds they find glorious.
The only playground equipment on the school's asphalt is a
volleyball net and some balls bought by teachers, and hula hoops
donated by the San Francisco Sheriff's Department, which also has
adopted the school.
A few feet beyond the fence are slides and jungle gyms in the
unused former Navy housing area on Treasure Island, a former naval
base.
This is the kind of equipment the school needs, but needs help
getting from the island bureaucracy. The principal still hasn't
gotten a response from her request last August for a piece of
playground equipment she wanted.
I love being an adoptive columnist. Unfortunately, the school
also needs a $10,000 mat to put on the asphalt under the playground
equipment.
Lord knows where the money for that mat comes from, when
teachers choked on the $70 insurance fee Conroy's office was going
to charge for two class picnics on an island field Wednesday.
Conroy said the kids now can go beyond the school fence without
paying for insurance, as long as they tell her office.
Dong is a first-year principal learning how to deal with island
bureaucracy. One thing this experienced educator doesn't have to
learn is how to run a school.
Parents and kids in the finest clothes stood in a circle
cheering and chanting as blindfolded children took whacks at a
pinata.
This has been the first year the school's enrollment has been
all city kids. When the Navy left, taking its dependents, city
parents were afraid the school would close, and 600 of them signed
a petition to keep it open.
The school brings life to a corner of the island, joy to the
kids and pride to the teachers. One hundred percent of the
seventh-graders, all of whom learned English as a second language,
passed the writing test given by the school system.
The kids didn't seem to want to escape. They watched attentively
on Thursday as middle school boys played soccer against teachers
and parents.
companies to fund the wiring of schools and libraries to the
Internet.
value would it put on itself? The answer, as might be expected
with a
as low as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion. So, if Goldman
were to sell
Any number of deep thinkers have tried to provide an answer as
we observe the 30th anniversary of Robert F. Kennedy's death at the
hands of an assassin. Much of the punditry ventures the opinion
that Kennedy would have just plain changed the world if only his
life hadn't ended so abruptly and violently in June 1968.
Arthur Schlesinger Jr., an acclaimed historian who served in the
administration of President John F. Kennedy, opined in Newsweek
that everything might have been different.
Kennedy aficionados such as Schlesinger believe that an RFK
presidency would have saved the nation and the world from many of
the terrible things that occurred in his absence: the continuing
Vietnam War; the continuing cycle of poverty and despair;
paralyzing scandal and the growth of public cynicism about
government and politics ...
That's speculation, of course. Others might speculate that
President Bobby Kennedy would have presided over an unbridled
expansion of the welfare state; a debilitating dismantling of the
national defense; the undermining of America's health-care system
through the imposition of socialized medicine; and, last but not
least, the long-term strangulation of the nation's economy
resulting from Kennedy's voracious appetite for taxing and
spending.
We haven't read much about such possibilities in the media
because the media remain mesmerized by the Kennedy mystique. Never
let facts stand in the way of a good story: If cruel fate hadn't
intervened, one of the Kennedy brothers would have led us to the
promised land.
Sounds like fantasy land to me, but maybe I'm one of those
cynics who would have been spared the anguish of cynicism if only
Bobby had ascended to the throne. Maybe I'm too cynical to
understand what might have been.
On the other hand, I wasn't cynical at all back in 1968 as I
geared up for my first vote in a presidential election. As a
first-time voter, I was in the market for an idealist to vote for.
I figured my best hope was Eugene McCarthy, who stepped up to
the plate and took on Lyndon B. Johnson in the New Hampshire
primary while RFK lurked in the shadows, agonizing over the hazards
of challenging the incumbent president of his own party. Kennedy
didn't throw his hat into the ring until McCarthy demonstrated
Johnson's vulnerability by nearly pulling off a gigantic upset in
New Hampshire.
It must be noted that all the projections about what Kennedy
might have achieved are based on the premise that he would have
been president that he would have won his party's nomination and
defeated Richard Nixon in the general election. Neither of these
eventualities was anywhere close to the foregone conclusion that
Schlesinger and others would have us believe.
But what if Bobby had become president? Would he have saved the
world, as Schlesinger believes? Or would he have left the world a
bigger mess than he found it, as his detractors would suggest?
Personally, I'd be inclined to lean toward the bigger-mess
theory. But who knows?
There's no denying that RFK was a man of great compassion and
insight, particularly when it came to those who were shortchanged
by society. One of his fondest dreams was to bridge the gaps that
separate Americans by race, class and even political philosophy.
If he'd achieved that dream, we might be saying now that nobody
cared what else he did or didn't do.
(Bill Thompson is a columnist for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
You can contact him at (817) 390-7787. Visit the Star-Telegram's
online services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)
Adopting the statement on submission of women would be another
example of the extreme rightward swing of the 15.9 million-member
Southern Baptist Convention the nation's largest Protestant
group.
Also, it would show the dramatic differences between moderates
and conservatives in the denomination. Not that the two factions
aren't already irrevocably split.
The moderates, following their ouster from power in the 1980s,
have formed their own organization, called the Cooperative Baptist
Fellowship, which, in effect, already is a separate denomination.
Whether one is a conservative or a moderate, though, statements
about women submitting to their husbands likely will be a
controversial subject.
His election would also be an emphatic indication of how
conservative the Southern Baptist denomination has become.
Patterson spearheaded the conservative revolution of the 1980s and
now is president of Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in
Wake Forest, N.C.
Ironically, Patterson's wife, Dorothy Patterson, is one of the
most powerful women in the denomination. She is an author, editor
of a popular Woman's Study Bible published by Thomas Nelson, and a
popular teacher and speaker throughout the denomination.
Russell Dilday of Fort Worth, a leading moderate and president
of the Baptist General Convention of Texas, which is separately
governed from the national convention, said the desire to add a
statement supporting families is commendable.
Baptist conservatives who insist on male leadership can take
some lessons from the Mormon leaders they will be visiting in the
next few days.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, like the most
conservative of Baptists, does not allow women to be pastors or
priests. None of the ruling hierarchy of Mormons is a woman.
Mormons, conservative Baptists, and some Episcopalians and Roman
Catholics, for that matter, use the argument that because Jesus' 12
apostles were all males, priestly leaders of the church should all
be males.
So conservative Baptists and Mormons, although at odds over many
theological matters, will be in agreement this week about keeping
women in their submissive places.
(Jim Jones is religion editor for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
You can contact him at (817) 390-7707, or e-mail:
jimjones(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the Star-Telegram's online
services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)
MOSCOW President Boris Yeltsin finds himself in a country
which does not actually belong to or obey him any more.
This is not only because it has become apparent that the Russian
president, as true of Mikhail Gorbachev once, feels much more
comfortable abroad than in his homeland.
By winning the race for governor last month in the vast,
mineral-rich, southern Siberian region of Krasnoyarsk, Lebed, the
48-year-old, high-profile, former paratroop general, also wins
himself a place in Russia's presidential elections in the year
2000.
By now it seems that not merely Lebed won a new place in
Russia's national limelight. Another factor won: It is the new hope
which has won out. Should Lebed prove to be able to maintain this
hope until Russia's presidential elections, he will enter the
Kremlin, sweeping aside all the other candidates including the
beleaguered Yeltsin or any Yeltsin-backed candidates.
Not long ago, of course, this military man, as commander of the
14th army division, used his power and influence to finally put a
stop to the bloody Chechen war. For that, he earned not the
congratulations, but the enmity of Yeltsin, who saw in it the
ambition of a rival to be president. As such Yeltsin sacked Lebed
from his job as Russia's top national security adviser.
Without a doubt, Yeltsin is still able to make a number of the
unpredictable moves characteristic of him. After all, this
president enjoys rights under a Constitution tailored to suit him
and he may once again choose to shake the world by some extravagant
escapade. But he won't accomplish anything of substance.
As governor, Lebed will have a seat on the Federation Council,
the upper house of Russia's Parliament. He holds a popular moral
authority indeed an immunity which Yeltsin himself used to enjoy
from any real or imagined accusations of wrongdoing.
Indeed, unless Lebed fails to learn anything from the mistakes
made by his former and present rivals, he is likely to enter the
Kremlin no matter what barricades are thrown up in his path.
The mistakes are rather obvious; the general must have memorized
them by now. Lebed will not try to play the role of a rowdy
politician like the ultra-nationalist Zhirinovsky. He will not
confuse people with statements about restoring Sevastopol and
Crimea to Russia like Moscow mayor Yuri Luzhkov does. He will not
get himself televised after midnight in saunas or houses of ill
repute. He will not hasten to write books and keep the profits. He
will not order from France pedigree cows or indulge himself in
finding new wives and lovers.
With all that has befallen Russia the collapsed economy, the
social decline, the unpaid salaries, the disappearance of public
services Yeltsin will not be helped out in the next elections by
the tricks that have worked in prior races: not the Moscow bankers'
money, nor the intellectual horror of the Moscow elite, nor the
Federation Council's gubernatorial jealousy.
The most helpless one in this tussle will be President Yeltsin.
Even now, those surrounding Yeltsin, in their minds, have already
fled. As for the power structures and the military that Yeltsin has
in fact been leaning on since 1993, while trying to appear loyal to
him, they will try to coordinate their every move with every move
Lebed makes. The generals may wear the stars that Yeltsin pinned on
them, but they will serve him looking over their shoulder at the
other man.
But there is also danger. The measure of confidence the newly
elected Krasnoyarsk governor is going to get if he wins the Russian
presidential elections will make people accept not just his
presidency, but also his dictatorship. Lebed will be saying that
his rule is a special brand of leadership a monarchy of the law,
conscience and order. Who will argue against it in Russia's current
poverty-stricken state?
As for fascism, no one has proven yet that Russia is afraid of
fascism. Yeltsin has already laid a foundation of tolerance toward
limited fascism and, in many cases, the State Duma has openly
sabotaged the passing of antifascist legislation.
As for the vaccination against fascism the people are said to
have received, this is a dangerous myth. Those who lived under
communism are not to be intimidated by fascism.
MOSCOW President Boris Yeltsin finds himself in a country
which does not actually belong to or obey him any more.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, available
electronically -- from this section can be purchased from The New
York Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their own
environmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
 THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.
 IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew tree
bark. Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud. So why
care about protecting endangered species around the world? Because
no one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found
... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it will
never be found. A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a New
York Times reporter who has written books on rain forests and
global warming.
An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.
At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.
The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.
The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.
Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.
Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.
If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.
The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.
The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.
No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.
And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.
To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.
Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.
On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.
On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.
Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.
To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.
Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?
Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.
On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.
Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.
What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.
So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.
In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.
This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.
Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.
Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.
The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.
On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.
In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.
But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.
The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.
It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.
At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.
The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.
The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.
Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.
Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.
If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.
The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.
The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.
No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.
And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.
To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.
Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.
On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.
On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.
Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.
To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.
Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?
Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.
On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.
Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.
What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.
So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.
In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.
This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.
Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.
Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.
The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.
On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.
In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.
But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.
The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.
WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.
That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.
Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.
If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.
The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.
But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.
Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?
What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.
Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.
Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.
Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.
That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.
In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.
You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.
In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.
What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.
That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.
Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.
If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.
This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Saturday, June
6, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.
Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDT
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
EDT Monday-Friday.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. EDT, is Tom Oder at 404-526-5456.
FEDERAL-DEBTS WASHINGTON A federal program that was supposed
to help collect debts that are owed the government has cost $40
million but brought in only $4 million, lawmakers complained at a
House oversight hearing Friday. Treasury officials offered few
assurances that they could make a big dent in the $52 billion in
non-tax related debts owed the U.S. (Malone, Cox News Service 500).
YORKTOWN-SURVIVORS WASHINGTON While ocean explorers from the
National Geographic Society were presenting a remote-control video
tour of the American aircraft carrier U.S.S. Yorktown this week,
survivors of the ship toured their memories of the bedlam of a
major sea battle. (Nesmith, Cox News Service 1000).
WILDE Directed by: Brian Gilbert Screenplay by: Julian Mitchell, based on Richard Ellman's
biography Starring: Stephen Fry, Jude Law, Vanessa Redgrave, Jennifer Ehle,
Gemma Jones, Judy Parfitt, Michael Sheen, Zoe Wanamaker, Tom
Wilkinsen Playing at: Kendall Square Cinema; Embassy Cinema, Waltham Running time: 116 minutes Rated: R (strong sexuality and language) 
The best thing about Fry's Wilde is his way of making us realize
that Wilde spent more time feeling than talking. He may have
exhibited a self-destructive streak in stubbornly chasing after the
wild, petulant, and emotionally and intellectually pinched Lord
Alfred Douglas, but Fry's reaction shots make a good case for the
fact that he was a steadfast and caring friend. That caring also
extended to his loyal and loving wife, even if he subordinated her
happiness and well-being, and that of his two children, to his
pursuit of young Douglas, nicknamed Bosie.
Nor does the film flinch from depicting, although not unendingly
or leeringly, a few convincing homosexual sex scenes. It was the
testimony of several so-called rent boys, after all, that sank
Wilde in his ill-advised suit against Bosie's vicious and
vindictive father, the marquess of Queensberry (the same man who,
ironically, invented the rules said to have civilized boxing). As
no other Wilde before him has done, Fry conveys with his eyes a
certainty that his arrogant and capricious young lover is going to
be bad news, and an equal certainty that he will pursue Bosie all
the same, even though it cost him everything.
Fry and director Brian Gilbert's biggest accomplishment is to
portray Wilde with dignity, even as he seems more than a little
ridiculous playing the fop. Jude Law moves a promising career yet
another step forward as the unscrupulous Bosie, utterly convincing
as a shallow but dangerous brat. Jennifer Ehle is another plus as
Wilde's wife, the aptly named Constance, who stood by her errant
husband. Michael Sheen is sympathetic as Wilde's first male lover,
the Canadian Robbie Ross, who returned Wilde's love. For a worldly
man, Fry's Wilde proceeds with prodigious blindness to the
consequences of thumbing his nose at the establishment, which stood
for it in his plays, but drew the line when in real life he
challenged its hypocrisy.
But Herlihy just doesn't fit the profile of the usual HAA
glad-hander. He can't remember making a donation since he graduated
from the World's Greatest University in 1980, and he thinks he may
be the first board member to have spent his Harvard years in the
once-radical Dudley Co-ops, off-campus cooperative housing in North
Cambridge.
Shortly before Herlihy was to begin his two-year term, HAA boss
Reardon phoned him in a tizzy. You're the wrong David Herlihy,
Reardon gasped. We meant to appoint David Herlihy of Hyannis, a
retired executive who spent 37 years at IBM. Ooops. Our David
Herlihy went to the first meeting anyway, met the real David
Herlihy, and surprise, surprise got the feeling that he wasn't
really wanted.
For years, the Eugene, Ore., couple known in cyberspace as Hubby
and Wifey had a little secret they liked to take video and still
pictures of each other when they made love.
But their private pastime became public about a year ago when
Hubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on an
Internet discussion group.
They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50
each. They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it's
a large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurt
their image as earnest amateurs.
Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used are
among hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude and
sexually explicit images of themselves online.
They aren't professionals. These aren't porn stars or topless
dancers. They are everyday people who like to show off, and like
Hubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.
Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 years
old. He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom with
three young children.
One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussion
forums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic. Some of
the groups are set up exclusively for the posting of erotic
photographs.
The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internet
that combines graphics, text, sound and video. There, a growing
number of people who don't consider themselves part of the sex
business are setting up Web sites that feature photos of
themselves.
Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internet
to turn a tidy profit. Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-based
market research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in
$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in
2001.
The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where most
of the amateurs begin. Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usually
through an expression of exhibitionism that generates positive
feedback.
Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn't
upset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids. And she was
particularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from people
wanting more.
Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in the
Usenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos of
the couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-quality
video camera.
But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paid
an experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, which
will be used to sell their videos in the near future.
Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,
was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in
1995. Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days when
she was designing the site herself.
Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details of
someone's life or planned strip shows.
Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains a
tongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature women
who take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge money
for it. Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,
enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.
DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, but
he soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to include
them on his pages.
For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kind
of safe underground where they can do so without being seen by the
mainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.
Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoring
for more. The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, charging
visitors $14.95 a month.
But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures on
Usenet. Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accused
F1guru of taking advantage of her.
Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from their
children. And Wifey worries that her religious parents will find
out. If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Net
will likely be over.
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions of
Saturday, June 6, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please
call Tina May at (206) 448-8355.
Here are the top news stories in sight at this hour from The New
York Times News Service for AMs of Saturday, June 6:
Please note that news stories and features from The Arizona
Republic, Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Fort
Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The
Kansas City Star, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle,
Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Ser vice and the New York
Times Regional newspapers are all part of your New York Times News
Service file.
A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for
Page 1 will move at approximately 4:30 p.m. ET as
AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER.
Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed in AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT,
which will move by approximately 7 p.m. ET.
HOUSE-BUDGET (Washington) The House is to vote on a budget
resolution with huge tax and spending cuts, putting it on a
collision course not only with its own appropriators but with the
Senate and the Clinton administration, guaranteeing a big budget
fight later in the year. By Richard W. Stevenson.
CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) The Senate Intelligence Committee
resumes closed-door hearings on Chinese satellite technology,
trying to resolve with Attorney General Reno and FBI director Freeh
a dispute over classified documents the committee wants. By Eric
Schmitt.
ORE-ASSISTED-SUICIDE (Washington) Reversing a previous
government threat to suspend the licenses of physicians who help
people kill themselves, Attorney General Reno says Justice
Department will not intervene in Oregon's assisted-suicide law, the
first of its kind in the country. By Neil A. Lewis.
GM-STRIKE (Flint, Mich.) About 3,400 UAW workers went on
strike at a key General Moters parts plant here, protesting what
they see as a lack of investment in the area and company plans to
send work outside the area. If the strike lasts a week, half of
GM's plants in the country will shut down because of lack of parts.
UTAH-POLICE-SLAYING (Bluff, Utah) One fugitive survivalist
sought for the killing of a Colorado policeman was found dead with
a bullet wound between the eyes, and the authorities hope they have
the other two suspects surrounded today in a nearby canyon. This
community of 300 has been evacuated since Thursday afternoon. By Jo
Thomas.
TEXAS-GIRL-ATTACKED (Dallas) A fourth-grade boy convicted of
beating and sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl, who was left
bruised and bloodied, could be sentenced to up to 40 years of
prison today.
CLINTON-TECH (Cambridge, Mass.) Clinton, in the commencement
address at MIT, talks about kids and technology and the 21st
century. By James Bennet.
NY-FLIGHT-DELAYS (New York) A breakdown in the the air traffic
control computer system causes delays of up to two hours at
region's airports, with resulting effects around the country.
KOSOVO-NATO (Washington) On Kosovo, there is much NATO
hand-wringing about what to do, but little stomach for sending in
troops. Restored sanctions aimed at Serbia are likely. By Steven
Erlanger.
KOREA-U.S. (Seoul) Kim Dae Jung, the former dissident and who
is now president of South Korea, returns to the United States on
Saturday, to a much better reception. By Nicolas D. Kristof.
IRAQ-U.N. (United Nations) Iraq's foreign minister holds a
news conference to comment on the two days of briefings by arms
inspectors. By Barbara Crossette.
ETHIOPIA-ERITREA (Asmara, Eritrea) Two Ethiopian military
aircraft bomb an Eritrean air force base in the capital today, a
day after Ethiopia's Prime Minister agrees to a peace proposal for
their disputed border.
ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs than
expected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a
28-year low of 4.3 percent. Payrolls expanded by 296,000 people
last month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000. April's
employment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initial
estimate of 262,000. Workers' average hourly earnings, a gauge of
labor costs, rose 0.3 percent, or 4 cents, in May, slower than
April's increase of half a percent. By Sylvia Nasar.
INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the White
House's new proposal for overhauling the Internet's naming and
address system. The proposal will refine a plan announced earlier
this year to turn over management of the system to the private
sector and stimulate competition for registering new Internet
addresses. By Amy Harmon.
INTERNET-FCC (Washington) The FCC is considering whether to
halt the collection of money from telecommunications companies to
finance the wiring of schools and libraries to the Internet.
GOLDMAN-WORTH (New York) Goldman, Sachs has taken many
companies to market, putting its prized imprimatur on the value of
thousands of public offerings of shares. So what value would it put
on itself? The answer, as might be expected with a franchise as
envied as Goldman, is not clear-cut, and estimates range from as
low as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion. So, if Goldman were
to sell a 20 percent piece of itself to the public this fall, as
some expect, it would be making a multibillion-dollar offering,
possibly one of the biggest in recent years. By Peter Truell.
ASTRA-MERCK (Undated) Astra appears ready to buy Merck's half
of their American joint venture in a transaction that would have a
value in the billions of dollars.
LOS ANGELES Want to meet that cute bachelor in the next
building who walks his bulldog in the morning? Got a yen to play
Frisbee on the beach with a high-jumping hound? Or jog in the park
with a glad-to-be-with-you canine?
Actually, the program which offers all-day and all-night
visits with abused and abandoned dogs who have been rescued and are
being resocialized for adoption is misnamed. There's no rental
involved, no fee for taking a dog out.
The 5-month-old enterprise was the brainchild of Roberts and
Camp Happy Dog owners Deborah Nabb and Nick Deleo. Nabb and Deleo
had opened their Sherman Oaks day-care center for dogs about five
months earlier and had begun to look for ways to become involved in
pet rescue efforts.
That was about the same time Roberts was looking for a place to
socialize and showcase dogs up for adoption.
Most of the dogs the Neva Foundation rescues come from dire
situations and are fortunate to find good homes.
Tyrone, a fuzzy-faced abandoned pup with a Benji-like appeal,
immediately caught Nabb's eye. She called her friend, Dana Weinberg
of Encino, and urged her to adopt the little fellow even though
Weinberg wasn't sure she wanted to take in a second dog.
If there's a major success story to come out of the adoption
program, it's Sam, a mixed-breed dog with ears like a donkey's. His
owner moved and gave Sam up; it took six months to find him a new
owner.
There's a tug-of-war game going on and a furious game of chase.
And over in the corner, one exhausted player has curled up for an
impromptu nap.
So, instead of leaving Butch or Fido alone at home, owners bring
their pooches to spend the day with other latchkey canines under
the watchful eye of dog trainers who referee tussles, play ball,
take them for walks, groom them, put them through obedience
training and just generally act as surrogate parents for the day.
Day care costs $20 per pooch per day and includes all the games
a dog can play before collapsing in exhaustion. About a dozen
customers' dogs come to play each day, joining the handful of dogs
that have been rescued and are up for adoption. Day-care dogs must
have proof of up-to-date immunizations; dogs for adoption have had
their shots, too.
In the storefront shop on busy Ventura Boulevard, Camp Happy Dog
is nearly filled with a corral formed from sections of 5-foot-tall
movable wooden fence. Inside the enclosure is a small doghouse, a
basket of dog toys and a full water dish. In the winter, it's warm
inside; in the heat of summer, the air conditioning keeps the
pooches cool.
Most owners drop off their dogs on the way to work and pick them
up on the way home. But Deleo also picks up and delivers, takes
dogs to veterinary appointments and even arranges after-hours
dog-sitting for customers, like those in the TV and film industry,
who work odd schedules.
Both Nabb and Deleo came by their love of dogs naturally. His
father trained dogs for the U.S. Army; her grandfather bred
Labradors. Before opening the shop, Deborah was a dog trainer; Nick
was a financial manager who also had worked as a dog trainer.
It could happen. And it could be a giant ball of chocolate, such
as Nestle's new Armageddon Asteroid, a hollow chocolate ball filled
with tangy red and black meteorites.
SHE'S BAAACK: It's happy news for Nancy Drew fans. The mystery
series most girls grew up with is back in its original form, with
the same book jackets used in the '30s when the series made its
debut. Remember those early books, when the fictional teen-age
detective was a blonde instead of titian-haired and carried an
electric torch instead of a flashlight? Miz Hot Tips used to spend
her entire allowance on the mysteries each week, so she was
thrilled to spot them in bookstores again, now priced at $12.95.
And there's a bonus. The new collector's editions have nostalgic
introductions by contemporary mystery writers, including Sara
Paretsky.
BEAUTY BUZZ: Hot off the fax machine is news that the Gap has
its own line of sunscreens. ... Sebastian now makes a swimmer's
shampoo called Performance Active that gets rid of chlorine. ...
Nordstrom now carries e-nail, a cool product for trendies like Drew
Barrymore and Jewel that looks like a CD and has tiny frog princes
and other cutsey decals for summer manicures. And speaking of
Barrymore, the young actress has designed a line of tank tops available at Planet Hollywood stores to support Wildlife
Waystation.
PET PATROL: This is Pet Appreciation Week, and that means
pay-back time for all the love and loyalty your furry or feathered
friend has given you. So don't forget a catnip mouse, a new ball or
a fresh seed treat, but do forget (at least this week) about those
shredded draperies, carpet accidents and other pet mishaps.
If you have a dog that loves to go for runs with you, consider
the pet first aid kit developed by the Los Angeles chapter of the
American Red Cross. You can get the kit for $35 at local Red Cross
offices or by calling (213) 739-5289.
It could happen. And it could be a giant ball of chocolate, such
as Nestle's new Armageddon Asteroid, a hollow chocolate ball filled
with tangy red and black meteorites.
SHE'S BAAACK: It's happy news for Nancy Drew fans. The mystery
series most girls grew up with is back in its original form, with
the same book jackets used in the '30s when the series made its
debut. Remember those early books, when the fictional teen-age
detective was a blonde instead of titian-haired and carried an
electric torch instead of a flashlight? Miz Hot Tips used to spend
her entire allowance on the mysteries each week, so she was
thrilled to spot them in bookstores again, now priced at $12.95.
And there's a bonus. The new collector's editions have nostalgic
introductions by contemporary mystery writers, including Sara
Paretsky.
BEAUTY BUZZ: Hot off the fax machine is news that the Gap has
its own line of sunscreens. ... Sebastian now makes a swimmer's
shampoo called Performance Active that gets rid of chlorine. ...
Nordstrom now carries e-nail, a cool product for trendies like Drew
Barrymore and Jewel that looks like a CD and has tiny frog princes
and other cutsey decals for summer manicures. And speaking of
Barrymore, the young actress has designed a line of tank tops available at Planet Hollywood stores to support Wildlife
Waystation.
PET PATROL: This is Pet Appreciation Week, and that means
pay-back time for all the love and loyalty your furry or feathered
friend has given you. So don't forget a catnip mouse, a new ball or
a fresh seed treat, but do forget (at least this week) about those
shredded draperies, carpet accidents and other pet mishaps.
If you have a dog that loves to go for runs with you, consider
the pet first aid kit developed by the Los Angeles chapter of the
American Red Cross. You can get the kit for $35 at local Red Cross
offices or by calling (213) 739-5289.
What we've got here is a triangle, and the underrated Viggo
Mortensen, as the artist who's romancing the married woman, is more
than adequate to the task of holding up his quota of the venality
and danger hemming Paltrow's anxious woman in. The screenplay is
smart enough to make sure Paltrow is handed more than a victim
role. Still, it amounts to a square-off between Douglas's raging
but outwardly controlled husband and Mortensen's smooth barbarian
at the gates. The trouble at home is exacerbated by the
wheeler-dealer's business troubles. His wife's trust fund, in fact,
would help him cover some reckless financial overextensions.
So the plot is hatched. Douglas, using moral outrage like a
baton, suggests Gordon Gekko under pressure, who has perhaps lost a
little off his fastball. In this film where everybody has at least
one guilty secret and nobody's hands are clean, Douglas projects
instincts as basic as any. Getting the edge on the painter by
looking into the latter's past, he blackmails him into murdering
his wife, sets up the killing, and retreats into an airtight alibi
at his club. Naturally, the murder doesn't go as planned. That's
when the improvisation and the guignol-based entertainment begins, enlivened by glimpses of a multi-culti New York,
personified by Sarita Choudhury's pal to Paltrow at the United
Nations, where both work as translators, and by David Suchet's
Arabic-American cop, as unnervingly competent-seeming as the sleuth
Suchet plays on TV, Hercule Poirot.
Without giving anything away, it can be said that the film ends
with a death, and involves a couple more along the way. They're
staged for shock value, and achieve it. The film works as a series
of skilled and cynical hammerstrokes executed in a pervasive
darkness that makes the route between Wall Street and the Upper
East Side seem a tunnel to hell.
Douglas is, as usual, all fire and ice, clenched and furious.
Paltrow becomes interesting when she abandons her usual air of cool
self-possession and allows her features to blur with the stress
she's feeling as she simmers in her bad choice of men. Mortensen
holds the screen against them both as the far from romantic
psychopath, whose role is expanded most beyond the original, and
who takes it to career-propelling realms of silken creepiness.
For years, the Oregon couple known in cyberspace as Hubby and
Wifey had a little secret they liked to take video and still
pictures of each other when they made love.
But their private pastime became public about a year ago when
Hubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on an
Internet discussion group.
They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50
each. They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it's
a large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurt
their image as earnest amateurs.
Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used are
among hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude and
sexually explicit images of themselves online.
They aren't professionals. These aren't porn stars or topless
dancers. They are everyday people who like to show off, and like
Hubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.
Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 years
old. He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom with
three young children.
One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussion
forums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic. Some of
the groups are set up exclusively for the posting of erotic
photographs.
The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internet
that combines graphics, text, sound and video. There, a growing
number of people who don't consider themselves part of the sex
business are setting up Web sites that feature photos of
themselves.
Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internet
to turn a tidy profit. Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-based
market research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in
$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in
2001.
The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where most
of the amateurs begin. Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usually
through an expression of exhibitionism that generates positive
feedback.
Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn't
upset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids. And she was
particularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from people
wanting more.
Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in the
Usenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos of
the couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-quality
video camera.
But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paid
an experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, which
will be used to sell their videos in the near future.
Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,
was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in
1995. Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days when
she was designing the site herself.
Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details of
someone's life or planned strip shows.
Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains a
tongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature women
who take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge money
for it. Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,
enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.
DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, but
he soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to include
them on his pages.
For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kind
of safe underground where they can do so without being seen by the
mainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.
Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoring
for more. The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, charging
visitors $14.95 a month.
But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures on
Usenet. Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accused
F1guru of taking advantage of her.
Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from their
children. And Wifey worries that her religious parents will find
out. If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Net
will likely be over.
THE TRUMAN SHOW Directed by: Peter Weir Screenplay by: Andrew Niccol Starring: Jim Carrey, Laura Linney, Noah Emmerich, Natascha
McElhone, Holland Taylor, Ed Harris Playing at: Cheri, suburbs Running time: 104 minutes Rated: PG (thematic elements and mild language) 
Not only does Christof control the weather; he also controls the
aggressive cheer level in this film that neatly turns the tables on
so-called reality-based TV as it follows the logic of turning lives
into programming. What does reality become when all it wants to do
is copy TV? Truman is the only thing that's unscripted, or rather
the innocence of his reactions is. His innocence and his privacy
are the real subjects of the show-within-the-movie, not the daily
banalities he has been conditioned to believe constitute reality in
his blindingly sunny world of greeting-card platitudes, shimmering
so surrealistically. The brave new world of Shakespeare and Aldous
Huxley has been supplanted by a ratings-driven world. Cannon fodder
has been replaced by camera fodder. Five thousand hidden cameras
are ever ready to capture Truman's every move and flicker through
Seahaven's beachfront world of Victorian replicas and white picket
fences.
Truman's appeal is rooted in Carrey's ability to project a
childlike acceptance of everything at what better for TV? face
value. He only dimly suspects that everybody around him is
different. He isn't paranoiac, but should be. Yet director Peter
Weir and screenwriter Andrew Niccol shrewdly allow Truman to feel
the cocoonlike comfort of his squeaky-clean box, the life he only
now realizes has been the centerpiece in a massive falsifying of
experience. Truman's anger, revved into action as he realizes his
theme-park world is a cage he must escape, must blast through the
passive urge to let TV keep doling out cues.
 Financial stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times
News Service for newspapers of SATURDAY, June 6. 
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other financial stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs than
expected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a
28-year low of 4.3 percent. Payrolls expanded by 296,000 people
last month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000. April's
employment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initial
estimate of 262,000. Workers' average hourly earnings, a gauge of
labor costs, rose 0.3 percent, or 4 cents, in May, slower than
April's increase of half a percent. By Sylvia Nasar.
INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the White
House's new proposal for reforming the Internet's naming and
address system. The proposal will refine a plan announced earlier
this year to turn over management of the system to the private
sector and stimulate competition for registering new Internet
addresses. By Amy Harmon.
INTERNET-FCC (Washington) The FCC is considering whether to
halt the collection of money from telecommunications companies to
fund the wiring of schools and libraries to the Internet.
GOLDMAN-WORTH (New York) Goldman, Sachs has taken many
companies to market, putting its prized imprimatur on the value of
thousands of public offerings of shares. So what value would it put
on itself? The answer, as might be expected with a franchise as
envied as Goldman, is not clear-cut, and estimates range from as
low as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion. So, if Goldman were
to sell a 20 percent piece of itself to the public this fall, as
some expect, it would be making a multibillion-dollar offering,
possibly one of the biggest in recent years. By Peter Truell.
ASTRA-MERCK (Undated) Astra appears ready to buy Merck's half
of their American joint venture in a transaction that would have a
value in the billions of dollars.
 For questions about stories, contact Al Simons at the Boston
Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics or
photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
MOVIE-TRUMAN (Undated) Comic Jim Carry pushes the envelope as
he plays Truman, whose life is a soap opera played to millions, but
in his soul knows something is wrong. By Jay Carr.
MOVIE-MARIUS (Undated) A sunny and endearing throwback of a
film about the lives of ordinary people in Marseilles. By Jay Carr.
Entertainment and culture stories in sight at this hour from The
N.Y. Times News Service for Saturday, June 6.
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other entertainment stories from
our partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, in
dentists' chairs and over dinner, the continuing news about both
Viagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change in
the way many Americans speak about a subject that some would prefer
be barely spoken about at all. In recent months, the subject of sex
and the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a few
inches closer to the conversationally commonplace. By Janny Scott.
WAR-CENTENIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot of
clanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps some
minor historical revisionism. The 1898 observation, now under way
in Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a tough
one. So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplate
how we got from there to here. By Timothy Egan. (1500 words)
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other sports stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst News Service, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
RAC-BELMONT (New York) In Saturday's running of the Belmont
Stakes, Real Quiet will try to become the 12th winner of the Triple
Crown, an achievement that horse racing has been waiting 20 years
for. By Joseph Durso.
BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweight
title fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off after
Akinwande tested positive for hepatitis B. This follows a female
fighter being disqualified because she was pregnant. If the card
goes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will be
the headliner. It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in a
sports facility that pledged to get back into the business.
OBIT-POVICH (Undated) Shirley Povich, a member of the writers
wing of baseball's Hall of Fame and whose career as a sports writer
covered more than 75 years at The Washington Post, died of a heart
attack. He was 92. By Ira Berkow.
Science and health stories in sight at this hour from The New
York Times News Service for SATURDAY , June 6.
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other science stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and American
scientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery of
neutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung over
the 120-member team one that could hamstring future research. By
Malcolm Browne.
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other stories from our partners:
Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst
Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas
City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San
Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and American
scientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery of
neutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung over
the 120-member team one that could hamstring future research. By
Malcolm Browne.
SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, in
dentists' chairs and over dinner, the continuing news about both
Viagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change in
the way many Americans speak about a subject that some would prefer
be barely spoken about at all. In recent months, the subject of sex
and the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a few
inches closer to the conversationally commonplace. By Janny Scott.
WAR-CENTENIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot of
clanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps some
minor historical revisionism. The 1898 observation, now under way
in Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a tough
one. So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplate
how we got from there to here. By Timothy Egan. (1500 words)
RAC-BELMONT (New York) In Saturday's running of the Belmont
Stakes, Real Quiet will try to become the 12th winner of the Triple
Crown, an achievement that horse racing has been waiting 20 years
for. By Joseph Durso.
BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweight
title fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off after
Akinwande tested positive for hepatitis B. This follows a female
fighter being disqualified because she was pregnant. If the card
goes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will be
the headliner. It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in a
sports facility that pledged to get back into the business.
OBIT-POVICH (Undated) Shirley Povich, a member of the writers
wing of baseball's Hall of Fame and whose career as a sports writer
covered more than 75 years at The Washington Post, died of a heart
attack. He was 92. By Ira Berkow.
Ward Connerly has made quite a name for himself, his caramel
brown face now synonymous with the fight to end racial and gender
preferences.
I turn the 58-year-old Connerly's words over in my mind and
think he's either asleep or mad.
What reasonable man can deny based on declining minority
enrollment at both Texas and California universities that
admissions based solely on test scores exclude most minority
students?
In 1995, Connerly won his fight to ban affirmative action at the
University of California. A year later, voters even supported him
when he headed the Proposition 209 initiative to end the practice
in all state and local government programs in California.
But this is not the time to eliminate the one tool we have to
help level the playing field for many minority youths. Luckily,
politicians elsewhere like U.S. Rep. J.C. Watts, R-Okla. have
recognized this and have backed away from such proposals.
Connerly, a University of California regent and businessman,
seems nice enough. He has worked hard to get where he is, once
working for 65 cents an hour to help keep a roof over his head.
But Connerly's contention that there is no greater insult than
to be accepted into college or given a job because of one's skin
color is wrong. The greater insult would be to not be given the
job, to not be admitted to college at all, because of your color.
Because of preferences, minorities like Connerly and, I should
also add, white women have been afforded opportunities they would
not have otherwise had.
What hasn't changed is the fact that too many minorities are all
too willing to be used by white racists to obscure mean and
socially harmful agendas. That allows them a program that would
otherwise be characterized as bald racism were it not decorated
with a self-loathing black face.
It was true in the past, throughout slavery and the civil rights
movement. It is true now. And I suspect, sadly, it will always be
true.
For reasons that escape me, minorities have always been this
way, operating like crabs in a barrel. A decent one will rise to a
position of power, where he is able to help those less fortunate,
only to then refuse in order to score points with his white boss
or, in some cases, just because he sees tokenism as job security.
That mindset has to change. Something terrible afflicts a people
who are unable or unwilling to help, to advocate on behalf of those
who are unable to do their own bidding.
It doesn't mean that you're anti-white; it simply means you're
willing to put other's needs before your own, that you're willing
to give up something big for something good.
Maybe Connerly is kidding. Or maybe he just doesn't know that
this is precisely the way opponents of affirmative action would
have him think.
(Gracie Bonds Staples is a columnist for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. Send e-mail to gbs(at)star-telegram.com. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
That landmark 1976 film, an eerily prescient satire, starred
William Holden and Faye Dunaway as Machiavellian network executives
who exploit the insanity of a news anchor (Peter Finch) in their
quest for higher ratings. Finch's character is an unwitting tool in
the network's plan, a human pawn whose individuality is abused, and
subsumed, by the media that bore him. He's trapped in the theater
of television.
The stars in the sky are stagelights in the film's first scene,
one of them crashes at Truman's foot.
Truman's escapades are intercut with shots of Joe Sixpacks
nesting in front of the tube: zaftig ladies on a couch, night
watchmen, tipsy bar patrons, a guy bobbing in a bathtub. They watch
Truman; we watch Truman; we watch them watching Truman.
They watch because they're lured by the mundane dramas of his
life, and by television's seductive powers to hold them. We watch
because we're seduced as well.
But the film becomes most unnerving when Truman starts watching
us, when he finally realizes he's the object of unseen, cunning
eyes. It's not a sudden epiphany Weir's movie unspools gradually,
establishing the artifice of Truman's world before breaking it down
entirely. He, and we, see clues to the trickery around him: a tear
in the sky, a cloudburst that rains on him alone, a wedding
photograph in which his wife is crossing her fingers.
Carrey is an ideal match for Truman, because his raging comic
sensibility has always carried with it a hint of innocence there's
a childlike purity to his talent, a foolish abandon that recalls
Charlie Chaplin's Little Tramp. And although he never meets his
maker, a cool media magnate played by Ed Harris, Truman is very
much a son in the biblical mold. He's Adam, maybe Isaac, possibly
Jesus. He is the created in a dance with his creator.
In 1928, the year Herbert Hoover whipped Al Smith for president
and made the world safe for Depression, an English physicist named
Paul A.M. (no doubt a morning-type of fellow) Dirac predicted the
existence of antimatter. 
For each particle of ordinary matter in the cosmos, he said,
like your electron and your proton and so forth, there is an
antiparticle with the same mass but with an opposite charge. (This
probably won't even make sense later, so don't worry about it
making sense now.) 
To be specific, Dirac said if there's an electron (which as
you surely remember from grammar school subatomic physics class carries a negative charge), the world's symmetry almost screams for
there to be a positively charged electron somewhere, which we now
know as a positron. 
The reason we know it as a positron now is that scientists have
produced it in laboratories (which makes you wonder what else
they're doing in there). 
Anyway, all these antimatter particles, in theory, could form
antimatter versions of visible matter. Which would mean antistars
(like Sean Penn?), antiplanets and even antihumans, several of
whom, I swear, are drive-through window clerks at some of the
fast-food restaurants I patronize. 
Some scientists theorize that there may be whole antigalaxies in
distant space. And that from these antigalaxies (or, anyway, from
some antiwhere) a few antimatter particles may get flung at Earth
from time to time. 
So they've sent up high-altitude balloons bearing detectors to
find them. And these detectors have turned up a few antiprotons
coming from cosmic rays. But, on the whole, the search has been
sort of disappointing. 
Now, however, a three-ton antimatter detector called the Alpha
Magnetic Spectrometer (its friends call it AMS, though had it been
up to me I'd have jiggled the letters so it could be SAM) is on a
shakedown cruise, preparing to spend 2002 to 2005 connected to the
new International Space Station. 
The space shuttle Discovery recently carried the AMS into orbit,
and for a few more days the AMS is supposed to hang around the
shuttle's payload bay, trying to detect any antimatter particles
that may dance by. 
An international team of scientists from 37 research
institutions collaborated on the AMS, led by Samuel C.C. Ting, a
physics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
(Paul A.M. Dirac, Samuel C.C. Ting. There's some kind of strange
double middle initial thing going on with antimatter scientists.
Perhaps some linguists and scientists will obtain a huge government
grant to study the phenomenon. I so-so hope.) 
One of the problems in trying to study antimatter is that it
doesn't seem to exist for very long. Anytime it gets close to
matter, both the matter and the antimatter annihilate themselves
and, in turn, produce huge amounts of energy. It's a process that
reminds me of some celebrity marriages. 
You have been quite patient until now not to demand to know
whether antimatter is the same as dark matter, which is what
scientists call all the unseen (so far) mass in the universe. Well,
no. They are not the same thing. 
But if dark matter has the symmetry to consist of both matter
and antimatter, as it may, scientists hope the AMS will help them
understand dark matter better. And speaking of the exquisite
balance of symmetry, please notice that I began this column with
the Depression and ended it with dark matter. Am I good or what? 
The new version (Windows; about $35-$40) goes beyond being just
another program that picks the route and spits out maps. It has
some interesting features not found in other programs.
For those with 3Com's popular PalmPilot handheld computer, the
program allows users to send directions from the software directly
to the PalmPilot. It also allows users to place photographs on a
map a handy feature if you want to indicate landmarks for turning
points.
(Lonnie Brown is associate editor of The Ledger in Lakeland,
Fla. He can be reached by e-mail at LonnieB001(AT)aol.com. An
archive of his recent computer columns is on the Internet at
http://www.theledger.com/data.htm.)
On balance, I'd have to say that the fads of today aren't nearly
as annoying as the fads of years past.
Oh, sure, the sight of a sullen, 21-year-old convenience store
clerk fingering his eyebrow rings is almost enough to make my
rethink my opposition to mandatory sterilization. And the way some
men my age and older pull what few remaining hairs they have left
back into those pathetic little ponytails makes me think that we
might save everyone a lot of time and trouble if we forget about
Social Security reform and, instead, just have us leap off a high
cliff once we turn 40 or buy our first toupee, whichever comes
first.
Flagpole sitting and goldfish swallowing were fads that had the
common courtesy to die out quickly. Bumper stickers show no sign of
going away soon, and we can blame it all on a few well-intentioned
parents in 1985 who thought they were promoting highway safety.
(You can bet we won't make that mistake again!)
Truckers and ordinary drivers yakked back and forth to each
other to find out which gas stations were open and selling gas.
(Ah, the good old days.) It wouldn't have been so bad if that was
all there was to it, but, of course, it wasn't.
Sure, it's some of the dumbest, shoddiest, most useless junk
ever to defile our planet but, heck, it might be worth something
someday. Especially if any of those things ever become popular
again. Think about that.
NEW YORK Outside the Metropolitan Club on East 60th Street the
other day, a line of tan and entitled-looking guests waited to be
admitted to a showing of John Galliano's first fur collection.
As a group, impeccably dressed and speaking Italian, French and
Fashionese, they looked like sitting ducks for animal-rights
advocates. Yet, no disturbances ensued, in part because the staff
of Christian Dior (Galliano is Dior's designer) had not delivered
invitations announcing the location until the last minute.
Given the buzz (both Madonna and the artist formerly known as
Prince had requested tickets, though neither appeared), the scene
at the door was relatively serene. In addition to buyers, editors,
investors and the social types one associates with Dior and with
fur (including Jocelyne Wildenstein), many young fashion followers
were at hand, egged on, perhaps, by the media's current fur frenzy.
After 300 guests passed by security guards who pawed through
their bags, they stood around in the club's monumental marble
entrance hall (completed by Stanford White in 1894) waiting to go
upstairs. Since it was the first time Galliano was bringing his
flamboyant style of fashion show and his Mediterranean sense of
time to New York, the crowd didn't seem to mind waiting for an
hour.
To amuse and sedate them, there was wine, heaping piles of
fruit, trays of canapes, and a harpsichordist under the vaulted
ceiling. There was also Anna Wintour, fur's big champion, looking
down at the crowd in her sunglasses, like some kind of master
puppeteer, from atop a grand marble staircase. And if that wasn't
enough, several nearly naked, androgynous male models were
lounging, Casanova-style, on banisters and benches. One was
lounging on the floor.
While the guests waited downstairs, two immense banquet rooms
upstairs, once used by Vanderbilts, Whitneys and Roosevelts, were
being readied for seating. They had been artfully trashed to create
a Casanova-has-been-here look with period furniture strewn with
flower petals, talcum powder, costume jewelry, and dirty wine
glasses. There was a canopied bed festooned with wreaths of flowers
and one long banquet table that looked as if it had just been
vacated by Madame de Pompadour, Rousseau, Louis XV and other
members of Casanova's coterie. One male model was lying on top of
the table, biding his time by eating grapes.
After everyone was seated, the show (inspired, of course, by
Casanova) began, and it was worth the wait. Galliano's standouts,
produced for Dior by Stallion Inc., included sheared minks in black
and white inlaid geometric patterns; silk kimono coats with silver
fox collars and cuffs, Poiret-inspired sable day coats lined with
handmade silk roses; pastel-colored chinchilla wraps, and broadtail
lamb wasp-waisted suits. In the new tradition of fur for the
fashion-forward, many were casual and light enough to wear when
chasing fur protesters or paparazzi down the street.
Some of the coats, which Galliano said he designed to reflect
romance, not wealth, were worn over lingerie. As usual with a
Galliano show, half the fun was in the presentation. To show the
coats, models passed through, fanned themselves and flounced about,
taking tipsy, uncertain steps, as if they were in an absinthe
stupor. They didn't seem to be straining for effect. Neither did
the male models who traipsed around caressing both the furs and
women and occasionally licking frosting off their fingers.
The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Saturday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about sports stories,
please call the Houston Chronicle Sports Department, 713-220-7896.
CLINTON-INVESTIGATION (Washington) A federal appeals court,
responding to requests to speed up hearings in special prosecutor
Kenneth Starr's investigation of President Clinton, agrees to hear
the case this month. By JOHN C. HENRY.
BUDGET-LIMITS (Washington) The House approves a Republican
plan to cut spending by $101 billion and to reduce taxes by the
same amount through 2003. By GREG MCDONALD.
BORDER-SHOOTING (Washington) Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, says
the House immigration subcommittee may hold a hearing next month
into the death of a young Texas man who was herding goats near the
Rio Grande. The man was shot dead by a Marine counter-narcotics
patrol a year ago. By GARY MARTIN.
TOBACCO-MONEY (Washington) When she first ran for the Senate,
Kay Bailey Hutchison was heavily dependent on contributions from
Big Tobacco. But she has since kicked the habit, joining a number
of lawmakers trying to distance themselves from the industry. By
BENNETT ROTH.
SUICIDE-RENO (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno decides
not to go after doctors in Oregon who assist with suicides as
allowed by state law. She says there is no federal prohibition that
would block the Oregon law. By STEVE LASH.
HOLOCAUST-REUNION (Washington) Survivors of the Holocaust hold
a reunion here this weekend to mark the 60th anniversary of the
transportation of nearly 10,000 Jewish children from Germany,
Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland to Britain. The journey saved
the children, many of whom never saw their parents again, from the
Nazi death camps. By EUN LEE KOH.
CLINTON-COMPUTERS (Boston, Mass.) In a commencement address at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, President Clinton
challenges states to make computer literacy mandatory for
middle-school students. By NANCY MATHIS.
KID-TRIAL (Dallas) Sentencing is expected for the 11-year-old
boy convicted of sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl. The
fourth-grader could be incarcerated for 40 years. Two younger boys,
ages 8 and 7, could not be prosecuted because of their ages. By JIM
HENDERSON.
MEXICO-FIRES (Mexico City) Light rain throughout Mexico is
helping reduce the number of wildfires, but the heavy rains needed
to douse the largest blazes may not come until next month, U.S.
relief officials says. By PHILIP TRUE.
BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) Advance on Game 3 of the NBA Finals,
which will switch to Chicago after the first two games are played
in Utah on Wednesday and Friday. By EDDIE SEFKO.
SOLOMON-ASSESS (Washington) When Rep. Gerald B.H. Solomon took
over as the first Republican chairman of the powerful House Rules
Committee since 1954, he said his goal was to be fair to the
Democrats. Now, as he plans his retirement after three years in the
post, he assesses his progress in achieving that goal. By JUDY
HOLLAND.
ATTORNEY-CLIENT-PRIVILEGE (Washington) Does the
attorney-client privilege of confidentiality die with the client?
The Supreme Court takes up that question Monday when it hears
arguments from lawyers for Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr and
attorneys representing the lawyer of the late deputy White House
counsel, Vincent Foster Jr. By MARK HELM. (Filed Thursday)
TEXAS-REPUBLICANS (Austin, Texas) With grand plans for the
fall election in mind, state Republican stalwarts gather in Fort
Worth this week to kick off what they hope will be a historic year
in Texas politics. What once was unthinkable is now within reach
for the Texas GOP: a sweep of the statewide elected offices,
gaining control of the Texas House for the first time in more than
120 years and keeping its slim majority in the Texas Senate. By
LAURA TOLLEY.
ARAFAT-HAMAS (Gaza City, Gaza Strip) For three months,
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has watched warily while a
political rival, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of the
militant Hamas movement, has been received almost like a head of
state by nearly a dozen Islamic countries. Most analysts agree that
the warm reception Yassin has received represents a fresh challenge
to Arafat's rule. By DEBORAH HORAN.
SECURITY-FRANCE (Undated) As France prepares to welcome the
world for the World Cup soccer competition beginning Wednesday, the
country's biggest concern is security. With thousands of rowdy
soccer fans pouring into the country and in the wake of a rash of
recent terrorist threats France is implementing unprecedented
security measures. JOHN P. LOPEZ.
KOSOVO-SERBIA (Paris) The effort by the international
community, including the United States, to lean on Serbia over its
harsh treatment of the Albanian minority in the province of Kosovo
is ill-advised and probably has made matters worse. By BERNARD D.
KAPLAN.
THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) Barry Goldwater was a poor
presidential candidate, but he was certainly one of the most
memorable of the also-rans. By ROBERT E. THOMPSON.
Workers will build 55,000 old-style Volkswagen Beetles here this
year. All are for the domestic market, where they are the backbone
of motoring for Mexico's middle-class.
Volkswagen has succeeded in raising the level of emotion around
its product. Auto dealers can't get the round little autos in their
shops fast enough to keep up with demand.
Here on the assembly line, that means 16-hour days for Everardo
Rodriguez, a team leader overseeing quality control. Being a part
of Beetle history is worth it, Rodriguez said.
The factory has boosted production by 13 percent since May,
pumping out 450 new Beetles per day. Sportier models with heated
seats and computerized maps for the European market are next on the
agenda.
Michael Wijers, a spokesman for Volkswagen of Mexico, said the
company needed to rebuild its name in the United States.
The automaker's U.S. sales hit bottom in 1993, selling just
44,000 units because of slow production in the Puebla factory,
Fiorani said. It was a far cry from 1968, when the Beetle alone
sold 423,000 units.
Response to the new Beetle concept car at the 1994 Detroit trade
fair was enthusiastic. The question: Where to build this car with
so much riding on it?
Proximity to the American market made Puebla, with a plant east
of Mexico City that employs 15,800 workers, the sensible choice
logistically. In addition, the New Beetle is built on the same auto
platform as the VW Jetta and the Golf, which also are made in
Puebla.
The average wage for a basic-level line worker is about $93 a
week for a six-day, 48-hour workweek in Mexico, compared to $632 at
Volkswagen-Germany's 29-hour, four-day workweek.
Volkswagen officials point to the much higher tax rate German
workers must pay, plus the disparity in living costs in a highly
industrialized economy versus those in a developing economy.
Wijers touted the benefits package that accompanies the wage,
the on-campus cafeterias that serve food at a discount, and the 40
buses that shuttle workers to and from their jobs at no cost.
Puebla city leaders say having Volkswagen here helps curb the
phenomenon endemic in a nation where half the population lives
below the poverty level, and whose citizens must trek to the border
or Mexico City to seek work.
Volkswagen invested $1 billion to expand its plant to produce
the new Beetle. Some 26 suppliers, half of them international
companies, are located in an industrial park nearby.
On the manufacturing line, workers gingerly guide an
octopus-like spot-welder to tack some of the 3,000 welds that go
into the car.
At the finish line, an army of new Beetles in brilliant red,
yellow, blue and silver colors inch forward silently on nearly
motionless conveyer belts.
Here is one of the few places women workers are seen, touching
up the lacquer on the trunk locks with paintbrushes.
In a nearby building on the 30,000-acre Volkswagen campus, the
traditional Beetle is still built 80 percent of the work done by
hand.
A company official said the plant is the only one in the world
where body and chassis are built separately and then attached.
At about $7,500, with government subsidized tax-relief on 20
percent of the car's value, the traditional Beetle is the most
affordable new car in the Mexican market. The wee air-cooled engine
is attached to the Bug's caboose with four simple bolts, making
maintenance easy.
None of the Beetles produced here this year will be exported.
Instead, they will serve across the country as taxicabs, first cars
for middle-class boys, family autos for working-class parents, and
company vehicles for small businesses.
For many, the VW Bug is basic transportation. But, as Wijers
said, it's also a deeply ingrained feature of Mexican cultural
history.
Beetle sales last year in Mexico fell to 35,000. It may have
been the effects of the 1995 peso crisis, but Wijers theorized that
would-be Beetle buyers were waiting to see if the new model would
be in their price range.
Nevertheless, the $17,500 retail price of the new Beetle puts it
way out of the price range for most Mexicans.
North of the Rio Grande, too, the Beetle is not about affordable
transportation but about a lifestyle choice.
NEW YORK On a sunny morning last week, Bonnie Pressman sat in
her office on the 10th floor of a gleaming Fifth Avenue tower. The
black-matte telephone on her desk looked big enough to route the
calls of a small city, and it wouldn't stop beeping and mewling.
Two assistants hovered by the door, impatient to escort her to a
meeting, while the noise of a jackhammer rose from the street.
But Ms. Pressman, the executive vice president and fashion
director of Barneys New York, ignored the phone, asked an assistant
to shut the door and stalled the waiting suits in a conference
room.
Ms. Pressman belongs to the growing number of trendsetters on
the East and West Coasts high-profile people from the worlds of
fashion, entertainment and society who have taken passages to
India, following to their source the popular interest in yoga, the
writings of Deepak Chopra and the blissed-out look in fashion and
cosmetics. Although Ms. Pressman discovered India through a medical
emergency, many others seem simply to be carried on the winds of
the latest trend.
When Marie-Anne Oudejans, the designer who founded the fashion
house Tocca, abruptly resigned two months ago, surprising the
fashion world and leaving no forwarding number, it was to Udaipur
that she disappeared for 10 days. The junior jet setter Lulu de
Kwiatkowski visited India in the spring, and Stephan de
Kwiatkowski, her brother, goes once a year. The models Kate Moss
and Naomi Campbell stored up reserves of equanimity in Rajasthan
for the hectic ready-to-wear shows in March. Ms. Campbell was
accompanied by Didier Fernandez, a booker who until recently worked
at Elite.
Of course, Western fascination with Indian culture has gone in
cycles for a long time. Ever since Alexander the Great marched into
northern India in 326 B.C. to persuade a yogi to return to Greece
with him (the yogi declined, preferring instead to immolate himself
on a funeral pyre), Westerners have periodically sought yogic
counsel. The potential threat of nuclear jousting between Pakistan
and India does not seem to have dimmed the latest cultural
infatuation.
The most hard-core recent visitors Sting, the director Andre
Gregory, the actors Meg Ryan and Betty Buckley, the Hong Kong
clothing impresario Joyce Ma and the social figure Anne Dexter
Jones are devotees not only of India, but also of the ashram
experience.
Among the ashrams particularly popular with Americans is one
outside Bombay in Ganeshpuri founded by Swami Muktananda, who was
influential among the Eastern teachers who came to the United
States in the 1960s and '70s. The ashram is now run by Gurumayi
Chidvilasananda, known to her followers simply as Gurumayi.
Her affiliated ashram in South Fallsburg, N.Y., the SYDA
Foundation (the acronym stands for Siddha Yoga Dham of America),
has attracted Meg Ryan, the hair stylist John Frieda and the
Manhattan socialite Mica Ertegun. Gurumayi's high profile is
further insured by the encouragement of visitors to her ashram to
carry her beatific portrait; it comes in a handy wallet size.
Anne Dexter Jones, the style editor of Hamptons Country
magazine, who is married to Mick Jones of the '70s rock band
Foreigner, said that she had noticed her own interest in the ashram
experience, and in India, picking up recently.
Jessica Tuck, a Los Angeles actress, is planning her first visit
to an ashram. She studies meditation at the Los Angeles Baba
Center, which is named for Sai Baba, and is planning to go to Sai
Baba's ashram in November.
Ms. Pressman meditates twice a day. She says she is in good
health. Her peaches-and-cream complexion puts peaches and cream to
shame. She has given up eating meat, smoking cigarettes and
drinking coffee. Barneys is planning to introduce the opulent,
Indian-inspired design collection of Colette Dinnigan in the fall,
and the photographs of runway models in bolts of bright fabric
littered Ms. Pressman's Yugo-size desk.
HOUSE-BUDGET (Washington) The House is to vote on a budget
resolution with huge tax and spending cuts, putting it on a
collision course not only with its own appropriators but with the
Senate and the Clinton administration, guaranteeing a big budget
fight later in the year. By Richard W. Stevenson.
CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) The Senate Intelligence Committee
resumes closed-door hearings on Chinese satellite technology,
trying to resolve with Attorney General Reno and FBI director Freeh
a dispute over classified documents the committee wants. By Eric
Schmitt.
GM-STRIKE (Flint, Mich.) About 3,400 UAW workers went on
strike at a key General Motors parts plant here, protesting what
they see as a lack of investment in the area and company plans to
send work outside the area. If the strike lasts a week, half of
GM's plants in the country will shut down because of lack of parts.
UTAH-POLICE-SLAYING (Bluff, Utah) One fugitive survivalist
sought for the killing of a Colorado policeman was found dead with
a bullet wound between the eyes, and the authorities hope they have
the other two suspects surrounded today in a nearby canyon. This
community of 300 has been evacuated since Thursday afternoon. By Jo
Thomas.
NY-FLIGHT-DELAYS (New York) A breakdown in the the air traffic
control computer system causes delays of up to two hours at
region's airports, with resulting effects around the country.
KOSOVO-NATO (Washington) On Kosovo, there is much NATO
hand-wringing about what to do, but little stomach for sending in
troops. Restored sanctions aimed at Serbia are likely. By Steven
Erlanger.
KOREA-U.S. (Seoul) Kim Dae-jung, the former dissident and who
is now president of South Korea, returns to the United States on
Saturday, to a much better reception. By Nicolas D. Kristof.
IRAQ-U.N. (United Nations) Iraq's foreign minister holds a
news conference to comment on the two days of briefings by arms
inspectors. By Barbara Crossette.
ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs than
expected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a
28-year low of 4.3 percent. Payrolls expanded by 296,000 people
last month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000. April's
employment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initial
estimate of 262,000. By Sylvia Nasar.
INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the White
House's new proposal for overhauling the Internet's naming and
address system. The proposal will refine a plan announced earlier
this year to turn over management of the system to the private
sector and stimulate competition for registering new Internet
addresses. By Amy Harmon.
NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and American
scientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery of
neutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung over
the 120-member team one that could hamstring future research. By
Malcolm Browne.
SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, in
dentists' chairs, and over dinner, the continuing news about both
Viagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change in
the way many Americans speak about a subject that some would prefer
be barely spoken about at all. In recent months, the subject of sex
and the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a few
inches closer to the conversationally commonplace. By Janny Scott.
WAR-CENTENNIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot of
clanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps some
minor historical revisionism. The 1898 observation, now under way
in Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a tough
one. So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplate
how we got from there to here. By Timothy Egan.
BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweight
title fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off after
Akinwande tested positive for hepatitis B. This follows a female
fighter being disqualified because she was pregnant. If the card
goes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will be
the headliner. It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in a
sports facility that pledged to get back into the business.
An anti-terrorism consortium formed in 1978, it is such a
far-reaching, massive association that in 20 years, the Vigipirate
has felt the need to go into action only three times.
The first operation was in early 1991 at the outbreak of the
Persian Gulf War. The second came in September 1995, following a
series of bombings and a bloody attack on a Jewish school in
southern France.
Perhaps nothing better illustrates security concerns regarding
the upcoming worldwide soccer extravaganza than the lengths to
which French and neighboring European leaders are going in an
attempt to avoid disaster.
Last month, the Vigipirate took part in synchronized pre-dawn
raids at 10 locations across France, arresting 88 suspected
terrorists, said to represent the Algerian Armed Islamic Group, who
officials believe were targeting the World Cup.
Traditionally, it is the ultimate quadrennial championship of
the world's favorite game, a five-week showcase of spectacular
athleticism, color and culture.
The 1998 World Cup, which is expected to draw nearly 2.5 million
people to France and attract a cumulative television audience of
more than 30 billion, begins Tuesday and concludes with the
championship game July 12 in Saint Denis, a quaint city just north
of Paris.
There will be 64 matches in 10 French cities involving 32
nations, 10,000 members of the media, every form of mass transport,
countless open-air parties and hundreds of organized events for
fans. Numerous world figures will attend, from heads of state to
international royalty to television and movie personalities.
Thus, concern about potential security problems for the World
Cup goes far beyond the typical drunkenness and soccer hooliganism.
World Cup organizers are bracing for the unknown up to and
including terrorism.
Four years ago, when the World Cup was held in the United
States, simple geography aided security forces. It was difficult
for much of the world to arrive in the United States by anything
but airplane. Since airport security forces easily dispatched or
arrested known thugs or terrorist sympathizers as they tried to
enter the country, problems were held to a minimum.
But in France, the estimated 2.5 million people expected to
watch the event will be arriving en masse from every direction,
using planes, ships, trains and automobiles.
Each national team participating in the tournament will be
protected by the elite French RAID police. Many teams, including
the U.S. team, will bring their own security personnel.
There also will be more than 5,000 plainclothes members of the
French security force roaming venues and cities. On game days, the
French Interior Ministry will deploy up to 6,000 police officers to
stadium sites.
World Cup security officials hope that efforts such as last
month's pre-emptive strike against the Algerian Armed Islamic Group
will avert potential terrorism by sending a signal that terrorist
groups are being monitored.
Regarding the most common threat at international soccer
matches, fan violence, security leaders appear to be happy with
their strategy but unhappy with World Cup ticketing and other
policies.
In fact, the system for ticket sales might even encourage
rowdiness, some believe. Nearly 90 percent of all tickets for the
Cup were sold to the French. The idea was to simultaneously give
the home team an edge while limiting the number of tickets to
potential troublemakers from abroad.
Much of the world criticized France's ticketing policy from the
moment it was implemented. The exceptions were ticket brokers and
scalpers. Already, brokers reportedly have sold more than 20,000
tickets to English fans alone, at prices up to 40 times their face
value. Fans from Italy, Germany, The Netherlands and Spain are
scooping up scalped tickets at a record pace, too.
The result could be that instead of fans being grouped by
nationality at events, they will be mixed together, potentially an
explosive situation.
Security personnel also are lamenting the organizers' decision
to send each team to three different cities for first-round
matches. Usually, each team plays a pair of matches in one city and
a third elsewhere, which encourages fans to establish a home base
of sorts.
This summer, with fans from rival countries mixing daily at
train stations and airports, more dangerous clashes could occur.
Most every security decision at stadiums clearly was made with
the most notorious offenders in mind the English and Dutch. The
English federation is expected to bring a large group of British
police to every game, with each officer carrying portfolios on
ringleaders.
Some English and Dutch matches also will not be shown on giant
screens erected outside of stadiums, which will be the norm
elsewhere, in an effort to discourage ticketless thugs from showing
up in an area where there is sure to be stifling heat and cheap
wine in abundance.
CLINTON-INVESTIGATION (Washington) A federal appeals court,
responding to requests to speed up hearings in special prosecutor
Kenneth Starr's investigation of President Clinton, agrees to hear
the case this month. By JOHN C. HENRY.
BUDGET-LIMITS (Washington) The House approves a Republican
plan to cut spending by $101 billion and to reduce taxes by the
same amount through 2003. By GREG MCDONALD.
BORDER-SHOOTING (Washington) Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, says
the House immigration subcommittee may hold a hearing next month
into the death of a young Texas man who was herding goats near the
Rio Grande. The man was shot dead by a Marine counter-narcotics
patrol a year ago. By GARY MARTIN.
TOBACCO-MONEY (Washington) When she first ran for the Senate,
Kay Bailey Hutchison was heavily dependent on contributions from
Big Tobacco. But she has since kicked the habit, joining a number
of lawmakers trying to distance themselves from the industry. By
BENNETT ROTH.
SUICIDE-RENO (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno decides
not to go after doctors in Oregon who assist with suicides as
allowed by state law. She says there is no federal prohibition that
would block the Oregon law. By STEVE LASH.
HOLOCAUST-REUNION (Washington) Survivors of the Holocaust hold
a reunion here this weekend to mark the 60th anniversary of the
transportation of nearly 10,000 Jewish children from Germany,
Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland to Britain. The journey saved
the children, many of whom never saw their parents again, from the
Nazi death camps. By EUN LEE KOH.
CLINTON-COMPUTERS (Boston, Mass.) In a commencement address at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, President Clinton
challenges states to make computer literacy mandatory for
middle-school students. By NANCY MATHIS.
KID-TRIAL (Dallas) Sentencing is expected for the 11-year-old
boy convicted of sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl. The
fourth-grader could be incarcerated for 40 years. Two younger boys,
ages 8 and 7, could not be prosecuted because of their ages. By JIM
HENDERSON.
MEXICO-FIRES (Mexico City) Light rain throughout Mexico is
helping reduce the number of wildfires, but the heavy rains needed
to douse the largest blazes may not come until next month, U.S.
relief officials says. By PHILIP TRUE.
KOSOVO-SERBIA (Paris) The effort by the international
community, including the United States, to lean on Serbia over its
harsh treatment of the Albanian minority in the province of Kosovo
is ill-advised and probably has made matters worse. By BERNARD D.
KAPLAN.
BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) Advance on Game 3 of the NBA Finals,
which will switch to Chicago after the first two games are played
in Utah on Wednesday and Friday. By EDDIE SEFKO.
SOLOMON-ASSESS (Washington) When Rep. Gerald B.H. Solomon took
over as the first Republican chairman of the powerful House Rules
Committee since 1954, he said his goal was to be fair to the
Democrats. Now, as he plans his retirement after three years in the
post, he assesses his progress in achieving that goal. By JUDY
HOLLAND.
ATTORNEY-CLIENT-PRIVILEGE (Washington) Does the
attorney-client privilege of confidentiality die with the client?
The Supreme Court takes up that question Monday when it hears
arguments from lawyers for Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr and
attorneys representing the lawyer of the late deputy White House
counsel, Vincent Foster Jr. By MARK HELM. (Filed Thursday)
TEXAS-REPUBLICANS (Austin, Texas) With grand plans for the
fall election in mind, state Republican stalwarts gather in Fort
Worth this week to kick off what they hope will be a historic year
in Texas politics. What once was unthinkable is now within reach
for the Texas GOP: a sweep of the statewide elected offices,
gaining control of the Texas House for the first time in more than
120 years and keeping its slim majority in the Texas Senate. By
LAURA TOLLEY.
ARAFAT-HAMAS (Gaza City, Gaza Strip) For three months,
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has watched warily while a
political rival, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of the
militant Hamas movement, has been received almost like a head of
state by nearly a dozen Islamic countries. Most analysts agree that
the warm reception Yassin has received represents a fresh challenge
to Arafat's rule. By DEBORAH HORAN.
SECURITY-FRANCE (Undated) As France prepares to welcome the
world for the World Cup soccer competition beginning Wednesday, the
country's biggest concern is security. With thousands of rowdy
soccer fans pouring into the country and in the wake of a rash of
recent terrorist threats France is implementing unprecedented
security measures. JOHN P. LOPEZ.
THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) Barry Goldwater was a poor
presidential candidate, but he was certainly one of the most
memorable of the also-rans. By ROBERT E. THOMPSON.
PARIS The effort by the international community, including the
United States, to lean on Serbia over its harsh treatment of the
ethnic Albanians in its province of Kosovo is ill-advised and
probably has made matters worse.
Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic isn't exactly the world's
political pinup, and Serbia's behavior since the breakup of the old
Yugoslavia in the early 1990s has been reprehensible.
But Kosovo isn't Bosnia, where Serbian military intervention had
the clear marks of aggression from the outside. Kosovo has been an
integral part of Serbia for centuries. Indeed, Serbs regard it as
the historic core of their nation even though these days Kosovo's
population is mainly composed of ethnic Albanians.
The situation in Kosovo is complex. Where in the Balkans isn't
it? But it is almost possible to sympathize with the thuggish
Milosevic.
Were he to yield to the Kosovo liberation movement, which seeks
independence as a step toward absorption by neighboring Albania, or
even grant autonomy to the province, he might as well pack his
suitcase and flee the country. He would trigger a national uprising
with many of his supposedly pro-democracy critics at home loudest
in their denunciation of him.
Milosevic could abandon the Bosnian Serbs as he did when he
signed the Dayton, Ohio, peace accord in November 1995 because his
own Serbs had turned sour on the Bosnian conflict following the
imposition of international economic sanctions against them. But
there's no sign of them buckling under to sanctions over Kosovo.
It's true that under the communist regime of the late Josef Broz
Tito, Kosovo possessed autonomy of sorts. But Tito had nothing to
fear. He ruled all Yugoslavia with unquestioned authority, and the
Kosovo separatists knew they didn't stand a chance of gaining
independence. An uprising in the Tito era would have been
unanimously condemned by the international community as increasing
the risk of a broader war.
Today, Milosevic rules a rump Yugoslavia consisting only of
Serbia and tiny Montenegro. In recent elections, even the
Montenegrins challenged his power.
So it's no wonder the Serbs view the Albanians' defiance and the
outside world's support for the rebels as tantamount to an attempt
to atomize Serbia itself.
Short of armed intervention by the United States and other
powers, it is hard to envisage the Serbs ever giving in. And, of
course, military intervention is unthinkable. Serbia is a sovereign
state of which Kosovo forms a part. Western indignation can produce
little practical result.
There is an irony in the crisis that is seldom mentioned: The
Albanians of Kosovo insist they want much closer ties with their
ethnic brothers and sisters of Albania.
But thousands of Albania's own citizens have fled to the West in
recent years, fed up with desperately impoverished living
conditions. Closer relations with fellow ethnics is just about the
last thing on the Albanian refugees' minds.
The incident occurred several years ago after a speech I made to
a women's organization in Ridgewood. I had just recalled an evening
toward the end of the acrimonious 1964 political showdown when
Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential nominee, took a
respite from campaigning to present his delightful collection of
Hopi Kachina dolls to a museum in Phoenix.
The mellow candidate who appeared before his fellow Arizonans
that evening bore very little resemblance to the shoot-from-the-lip
conservative whose public utterances and presidential nomination
had fractured the Republican Party and scared the daylights out of
many Americans.
In a short time, he had managed to alienate millions of people
who viewed him as something of a mad bomber who would ignite
nuclear war. He also lost the support of millions who depended on
Social Security, the Tennessee Valley Authority, recently-enacted
civil rights laws and other federal policies that he had attacked.
The woman from Ridgewood was not alone among loyal Republicans
who voted for Barry Goldwater with trepidation.
In the endless pageant of individuals questing for the
presidency, he occupies an unusual place. He was a living paradox a colorful, outspoken westerner who was at once one of the 20th
century's worst candidates and one of its most memorable also-rans.
Like other defeated candidates such as Alf Landon in 1936,
George McGovern in 1972, and Michael Dukakis in 1988, Goldwater ran
a poor campaign. But like Wendell Willkie in 1940, Adlai Stevenson
in 1852 and 1956 and Hubert Humphrey in 1968, he voiced opinions
and defined issues that left a lasting imprint on the republic.
When the votes were counted in 1964, Goldwater had carried only
Arizona and five states of the Deep South. Lyndon Johnson prevailed
in the other 44 states and carried nearly two thirds of the popular
vote while the Republicans were losing 38 seats in the House and
two in the Senate.
Conservatives contend that Goldwater was simply ahead of his
time, and there may be some truth to that argument. But the larger
truth is that he was out of step with public sentiment in the
mid-1960s when a majority of Americans supported legislative
efforts to end legalized racial segregation and wanted to use their
government as an instrument to improve conditions for the poor, the
young and the aged.
There can be no question, however, that Goldwater was the
godfather of the modern conservatism that eventually landed Ronald
Reagan in the White House.
The Young Americans for Freedom who flocked to Goldwater's
rallies in the 1960s were adult voters and campaign workers by the
1980s.
But Goldwater did not share their enthusiasm for the agenda of
today's apostles of the religious right who would outlaw abortion,
install organized prayer in public schools and refuse to grant gays
the rights enjoyed by heterosexuals.
A rugged man of the West who prized independence and freedom, he
could not march to the beat tapped out by Jerry Falwell, Pat
Robertson and their brethren who would have government dictate
private conduct.
Goldwater once said in an interview that among the men who had
served in the White House during his years in politics he most
admired Harry Truman. Although they differed drastically on the
role government should play in the lives of the people, he liked
Truman's honesty and integrity and the way he spoke his mind.
In the contentious summer of 1974, it was Goldwater who was
chosen by his fellow Republicans to inform Nixon that if he did not
resign, he would be convicted in the Senate of impeachment charges
voted by the House.
Although he was a staunch Republican, he prized his friendship
with John Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey and other Democrats in the
Senate.
Some of us who covered his campaign wondered if Goldwater really
wanted to be president. He did and said so many things that a man
lusting for the Oval Office would not do and say.
But he was a stubborn old desert rat who was determined to be
candid with the voters even if him cost him the presidency.
Goldwater, as president, probably would have tried to abolish
many of the New Deal reforms that people had come to cherish and
depend on. And he would have failed.
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. Inside the laboratory of Drs. Garth
and Nancy Nicolson, a freezer is cracked open and a cloud of frosty
vapor slowly dissolves to reveal row after row of metal boxes, the
boxes filled with vials, the vials in turn filled with the blood of
Gulf War veterans and their families.
A few of those vials are being shipped to laboratories in an
attempt to support or debunk one of the most controversial theories
of Gulf War illness.
They have treated a number of veterans, their families and their
own daughter with long-term antibiotic therapy.
And last month, because of their work, the Department of
Veterans Affairs began planning a large, multicity study looking at
the effectiveness of antibiotic treatment in Gulf War veterans.
The Nicolsons' theory of Gulf War illness has attracted fervent
supporters among some veterans and their families, and, until
recently, skepticism and even scorn from the military and many in
the scientific community.
In many of the soldiers, the mycoplasma appear to be genetically
engineered to include a gene from HIV, the virus that causes AIDS,
Nicolson said. He believes that particular gene, called GP-120,
could make it easier for the mycoplasma to target cells important
to the immune system.
But the Nicolsons argue this infection hides deep in cells,
rather than floating free in blood. A test developed by Nancy
Nicolson, called nuclear gene tracking, coupled with a technique
called forensic polymerase chain reaction, sniffs out the genetic
code of the mycoplasma infection, they say.
Two civilian labs in California one private, another
associated with the University of California at Irvine have
reported finding high levels of mycoplasma in Gulf War vets, as
well as in civilian patients with chronic fatigue syndrome and
fibromyalgia, two other conditions with similar vague and multiple
symptoms.
It might have ended there, but Nicolson's claims were heard by
some members of Congress, particularly Rep. Jack Metcalf, R-Wash.,
and Rep. Norman D. Dicks, D-Wash.
At their urging, the Department of Defense agreed last year to
train researchers at four laboratories in the Nicolsons' precise
methods.
The researchers flew to Huntington Beach in January. The group
included Dr. Joel Baseman, an internationally recognized mycoplasma
expert and chairman of microbiology at the University of Texas
Health Science Center, and his staff.
Baseman said trying to identify the cause of Gulf War illness
seven years after the war is an extraordinary challenge particularly given the growing list of possible exposures soldiers
faced, such as chemical agents, sand storms, oil fires and anthrax
vaccines.
Mycoplasma are unique among infectious organisms. They are among
the smallest of bacteria, and are unusual in that they lack a cell
wall and depend on a host organism either plant or animal to
survive.
Mycoplasma strains were first linked to human infections in the
1930s and 1940s. They are a major cause of atypical pneumonia, and
have been isolated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, leukemia,
urinary tract infections and AIDS.
Garth Nicolson is a respected cancer researcher, who until 1996
was the David Bruton Jr. Chair in Cancer Research at the University
of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. His wife, Nancy,
was an instructor in biophysics at Baylor College of Medicine.
Their journey began in 1991, when Garth Nicolson's daughter,
Sharron, returned from the Persian Gulf with health problems. She
had been a staff sergeant and crew chief of a Blackhawk helicopter
with the Army's 101st Airborne Division, and was completing pilot
training when she became ill.
Her symptoms were typical of Gulf War illness. Among them:
fatigue, intermittent fever, joint and muscle pain and impairments
in short-term memory.
Nancy Nicolson found those symptoms familiar. She had suffered a
similar illness in 1987 while working at Baylor, she said. At that
time, she and her husband experimented with antibiotic treatment
that eventually cured her illness.
Some pro-choice groups want to make Rep. Kay Granger of Texas
face the music, claiming she ain't dancing with them what brung her
to the big party in Washington.
Supporters for her challenger in November, Democrat Tom Hall,
are trying to use the Republican congresswoman's voting record to
paint her as anti-choice.
Her detractors, including Hall, the Fort Worth attorney who
faces her in the general election, point to that record as evidence
of her kowtowing to Republican bigwigs inside the Texas delegation
and out, rather than doing right by her moderately conservative
district.
Without question, the former Fort Worth mayor has learned some
fancy footwork that usually takes new members of Congress longer to
master. She sashayed up to House Speaker Newt Gingrich quicker than
you can say Cotton-Eyed Joe, and it paid off in powerful
appointments and opportunities normally not bestowed on lowly
freshmen. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee was
a coup for a rookie, as was her appointment to the House Budget
Committee, where she fought hard to limit defense spending cuts.
Her voting record can't be argued. According to Congressional
Quarterly, Granger voted 95 percent of the time with her GOP
colleagues on party-line issues. That should put to rest the
concerns by GOP leaders prior to her 1996 election that she might
not be loyal to the Republicans.
But Granger contends she has a realistic grasp on the moderate
leanings of the 12th Congressional District a district that
faithfully supported Pete Geren, a Democrat who on some issues
could out-conservative the Republicans.
Hall has some complicated footwork ahead of him if he thinks he
can bump the immensely popular Granger from the floor. His
supporters are obviously hoping to woo pro-choice Republicans away
from her dance card.
Granger's ready to dance with them what brung her, all right, as
long as they remember there are some steps she won't do.
They also connected with the network of other Gulf War veterans
who had become ill. In a study of 170 patients with Gulf War
illness, they found 76 with signs of mycoplasmal infections. They
published their findings in occupational medicine journals and
described it in testimony before Congress and investigative panels.
Wolf, who served with the Army Reserve's 920th transportation
unit in Saudi Arabia, tested positive for mycoplasma infection, as
did his 12-year-old daughter. He has undergone several cycles of
antibiotic treatment.
When a mysterious cluster of illnesses was reported by residents
of Huntsville, Texas, the Nicolsons charged that DOD researchers
had tested biologic agents containing mycoplasmas on Texas
prisoners experiments that also sickened guards and local
residents.
Nancy Nicolson was quoted in articles charging that U.S.
operatives had broken into their lab and had tried to kill them on
multiple occasions. They left Houston after Nicolson was stripped
of his chairmanship at M.D. Anderson, and set up their private
laboratory in California.
Today, with the government prepared to take a serious look at
their claims, the couple steers the conversation away from
conspiracy theories.
Now, they are satisfied by the cooperation they're getting from
the military, particularly since Army Gen. Hugh Shelton became
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Shelton, a Green Beret who
was an assistant division commander during the Gulf War, has been
supportive of their work, they say.
The Nicolsons say that 75 percent of Gulf War veterans who test
positive for mycoplasma infection recover on long-term antibiotic
treatment. They also recommend nutrition therapy and other methods
to boost the immune system.
Although dioxicycline, the antibiotic used by the Nicolsons, is
a relatively benign one, such treatments can cause problems over
time, including gastrointestinal illness, painful mouth sores and
vaginitis, Kilpatrick said.
Nicolson, who first submitted grant proposals to the DOD four
years ago, says he hasn't had the funds to conduct that kind of
research. The couple took out a second mortgage on their home and
are $450,000 in debt. They have more than 600 frozen samples from
Gulf vets they say they haven't been able to test because they
can't afford it.
ALL -- HABITAT. Rarely do Democrats and Republicans agree on how
to solve homelessness, but this weekend representatives will cast
partisanship aside and return to their districts to attack the
problem head on. Armed with hammers and nails, lawmakers will work
alongside local volunteers to help build a Habitat for Humanity
home for a poor family. Preston
ALASKA -- PILOTS. The Federal Aviation Administration has agreed
to hear arguments on why Alaska guide pilots should not be placed
in the same class as commercial air taxis. But guide pilot
advocates feel the new regulations will put them out of business,
and that the move is too little too late. (Working.) Gorman
FLORIDA -- HABITAT. Rarely do Democrats and Republicans agree on
how to solve homelessness, but this weekend three Miami House
members will cast aside partisan differences to attack the problem
head on. Armed with hammers and nails, GOP Reps. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen will join Democratic Rep.
Carrie Meek and local volunteers to build a Habitat for Humanity
home Saturday in Liberty City. Preston
-- AMEND. Reax from U.S. Reps. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., and
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., to this afternoon's vote on a
constitutional amendment on public-school prayer (For insert into
wire copy.) Williams
-- TRAIN. Rep. Peter Visclosky, D-Ind., condemned the planned
merger between CSX and Norfolk Southern railroad, saying the plan
would congest traffic in Northwest Indiana and maybe cost lives.
Wolfberg
MICHIGAN -- DINGELL. Less than a week before the House takes up
campaign finance reform legislation, Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich.,
unexpectedly threw his support behind a bipartisan bill, calling on
fellow Democrats to shun a finance reform bill he had previously
introduced. Stebbins
OHIO -- ELECTRONIC-COMMERCE. Rep. Mike Oxley, R-Findlay, held a
hearing this morning on the future of electronic commerce and new
methods for making electronic purchases. Interviewed Oxley on what
he sees as the issues involved in electronic commerce. Will also
talk to someone in the computer science department at OSU. Eckstein
-- DRUGS-IN-JAILS. Reps. Rob Portman (R-Terrace Park) and Bill
McCollum (R-Fla.) will discuss new legislation to discourage high
rates of drug abuse and recidivism in prisons. Story will try to
include insights from the members of the National Association of
Drug Court Professionals, the National Association of Police, the
Buckeye State Sheriff Association in Columbus, Ohio, the Department
of Corrections in Columbus and possibly some county drug official
in Cincinnati. Some of these groups will attend the conference.
Herard
SOUTH CAROLINA -- SRS. The Senate Appropriations Committee this
afternoon is expected to approve nearly $1.46 billion for
operations at the Savannah River Site for the coming fiscal year.
(Working.) Williams
VIRGIN ISLANDS -- RULING. A federal appeals court has denied a
motion to suppress evidence in the case of a Virgin Islands ferry
service charged with dumping oil. Williams
Video cameras roll, throwaway and sturdy Nikon cameras point
from one side to the other side of our open-air vehicle, here
called a lollie. Our guide and driver Clifford speaks in a clipped
African accent like the click, click, click of the cameras.
We are driving through the Harambe Wildlife Preserve. It's hot.
Desert hot. Perfect for a jungle safari. Clifford pushes the
accelerator of Simba One to the floor so that we can get through a
deep murky river that has spilled over from the waterfall in the
distance and out onto the road. We and the other 32 passengers
bounce up and down over rocky terrain. Every once in a while drum
and mbira a little figure piano play over small speakers
installed on the ceiling of the open-air vehicle. This occurs when
a mammoth giraffe appears off in the distance.
It isn't by chance, this perfect orchestration of sight and
sound. And although it is delivering the excitement of an African
adventure, we are actually on a Kilimanjaro Safari in Disney
World's newest theme park, Animal Kingdom. This Kingdom is 500
Central Florida acres reconfigured into deep green jungles, forests
and savanna and strikingly what one might expect to see at an
animal reserve in Africa.
The Kilimanjaro Safari is definitely the highlight of the park.
Include it at the beginning of your trip. It's the one with the
longest line. Our wait was short compared with other busy days. It
was a 30-minute wait for the 22-minute ride. And Disney has taken
long waits into consideration and orchestrated that here, too.
And a little later, under a thatched hut, rows of
close-captioned TVs show a video, produced by the Harambe Wildlife
Preserve, a primer on safari wildlife with a built-in plea to help
protect all wildlife.
There are no visible barriers between you and the animals as you
take your ride through the Harambe Preserve, but signs posted
throughout the park ask that you not feed the animals or drop trash
that might injure them.
Disney did, in fact, have a few animals die en route to Animal
Kingdom and some when they arrived. According to Time magazine,
among the casualties were four cheetah cubs, two hippos and two
rhinos. Two otters also died, one after gorging itself on seeds
from loquat trees. Disney uprooted the trees and removed them from
the Preserve. Two African crown cranes also died, one after darting
out in front of one of the Safari lollies. According to Time,
they've since moved the cranes to a walking trail and installed
more mirrors on the vehicles so drivers have better sight lines.
If you can tolerate standing in line again, experts say to take
the trip two or three times, since you never know which animals
will appear at any given time or what they'll be doing once you see
them. A good example of this occurred after our Kilimanjaro ride.
We followed, on foot, the path to the Gorilla Falls Exploration
Trail, where a mother and her 6-month-old baby were being viewed by
a huge group gathered behind glass.
But here is where this impromptu stage works its magic. Gorilla
Mom decided her baby was getting too precocious. He had climbed a
tree and was acting too sure of himself. She plucked him from the
tree, looked directly our way, then scampered off with the baby
latched onto her arm, the same way he had hugged the tree limb.
Written in chalk, it is updated frequently and offers tips on
how long you can expect to wait for a particular ride. It also will
tell you what might be the next, best thing to do at that
particular time based on crowd size and weather elements. And you
can always bide some time, as we did, back at the Tree of Life.
This is the park's centerpiece that towers 145 feet in the air
(that's about 14 stories) and has 325 images of animals, including
birds, reptiles, amphibians and insects. The man-made tree evokes
the same kind of game you might play with your family on a long car
ride when trying to figure out images in clouds.
Inside the trunk, you'll be given bug-eyed 3-D glasses. The
movie takes you inside the world of insects and it's complete with
many effects, including the sights, sounds and even smells (watch
out for this one) of the bug world. We had multiday Disney passes
and lofty ideas about maybe hitting the Magic Kingdom later in the
afternoon, but Animal Kingdom is vast. We discovered midway through
our travels that you should plan on spending the entire day at this
park. It's also best to get an early start. The park opens at 7
a.m. It closes at 8 p.m.
It is somewhat difficult to maneuver Animal Kingdom and we spent
a lot of our time using the map and trying to figure out how to get
from point A to point B. The landscape of this park is more winding
and hilly.
We stumbled upon Camp Mickey-Minnie. The idea here is that the
Disney characters are vacationing in the Adirondacks and you can
visit with them for an autograph or a photo shoot. Some walk the
grounds while others are at little campgrounds where a short stay
in line can get you an autograph or a photo op. Although we didn't
have any small children with us, we decided it was worth the stand
in line to get a snapshot with Winnie the Pooh and Mickey Mouse
dressed in hiking gear.
Here you are a scientist given the assignment of saving the last
animatronic dinosaur from extinction when the crash of a fiery
asteroid threatens Earth. The vehicle twists and turns. Watch out
for that pterodactyl, we've narrowly missed the carnotaurus, we've
got to save the iguanodon.
SAN FRANCISCO A security company that asked its applicants a
series of questions about their political beliefs settled a
class-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million, a case that could
change the way corporations around the country screen job
candidates.
The settlement, filed Thursday in U.S. District Court in San
Francisco, will pay up to 8,000 job applicants as much as $1,250 as
part of an agreement reached between the American Civil Liberties
Union and Burns International Security Services, a subsidiary of
Borg-Warner Protective Services Corporation, the nation's largest
security company.
A statement from Borg-Warner said the company denied all
liability in the lawsuit and follows all state and federal
employment laws.
Lead plaintiff Mel Thompson, 38, said he took the test at the
company's San Francisco office in 1993 and was offended by the
questions and refused to answer many of them.
Thompson said he voiced objections to the supervisor who gave
him the test when he realized he would be disqualified because of
his answers.
Under terms of the settlement, Thompson and other applicants who
were disqualified based on their test answers will receive up to
$1,250 while those applicants who were hired can receive up to
$500.
The Rules Committee is the management apparatus that the
majority party uses to run the business of the unruly 435-member
House. The 13-member committee can quickly doom a bill by
determining how it will be treated when it reaches the House floor.
He pledged that 70 percent of the legislation the panel sent to
the House floor would go there under an open rule.
His record to date: 58 percent of House bills in his first two
years had open rules and 53 percent of bill so far this year.
 Allowing members of the minority party to have the last
chance before a vote to offer their own version of a bill.
 Ending proxy voting in House committees, thereby forcing
members to attend. He also worked to allow TV cameras to cover all
committee testimony and cut the number of committee staffers in the
House by almost one-third.
Solomon's stint as chairman gets a less-glowing report card from
his predecessor, Rep. Joe Moakley, D-Mass., committee chairman from
1989 to 1994.
By Moakley's count, Solomon sent legislation to the floor with
open rules just 43 percent of the time in his first two years and
just 33 percent this year.
Moakley argues that this isn't much better than his own record
of 30 percent in his last two years as chairman.
Indeed, one of the prime qualifications for membership on the
Rules Committee is fierce loyalty to the party leader, either
Speaker Gingrich or Rep. Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., the House Democratic
leader.
Both Solomon and the man who will succeed him next year if the
Republicans remain in control, Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., are
known as Gingrich disciples.
Dreier, 45, a smooth, dapper Southern Californian with a
penchant for pinball, says the speaker calls the shots in the final
analysis.
Solomon, a conservative who worships Ronald Reagan, was
appointed to the post by Gingrich, who named all nine Republicans
to the committee. The four Democrats, picked by Gephardt, are
outnumbered more than 2-to-1, assuring that the speaker's desires
will be carried out.
What endows the Rules Committee with its huge clout is the fact
that every House member pushing legislation has to win the panel's
approval before the bill can go to the House floor.
As a result, virtually every House committee chairman and
subcommittee chairman attends a Rules Committee meeting in the
course of a session to ask the panel's blessing on particular
legislation.
The committee meets three or four times a week in an intimate
Capitol hearing room under three chandeliers. The beseeching member
sits at a small table, peering up at Solomon who looks down at the
witness from his perch atop a tall semi-circular dais.
Recently, Solomon has carried out the speaker's will by using
House rules to assure that the House won't approve campaign finance
legislation this year.
Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter, D-N.Y., says Solomon effectively
killed the legislation by sending the bill to the House floor under
a rule that allows 12 different versions of the bill to be debated
and amended. This will require so much debate that there won't be
enough time to finish action.
In the 1950s and 1960s, then-rules chairman Howard Smith, D-Va.,
would block civil rights legislation by simply disappearing or
arranging for other committee members to be absent so that a quorum
wouldn't be present. Absent a quorum, the panel would adjourn.
The committee applies 51 standing House rules that are found in
a 4-inch-thick black book with gold letters, which includes a
manual by Thomas Jefferson with his anecdotes and thoughts on how
the House should be run.
The rules book gets fatter every two years when members of every
new Congress update it, usually with footnotes. One rule,
stipulating that all amendments to a bill must be germane, is just
25 words long, but 26 pages of footnotes have been added to explain
how the rule is applied.
When he leaves Congress at the end of the year, Solomon, 67,
will have finished just four years in his six year-term as rules
chairman, after serving 16 years in the minority.
That's why his late April retirement announcement left many of
his friends and colleagues baffled. Dreier, 45, says he was one who
wasn't surprised. He said that when he was pondering leaving the
House to run for the Senate two years ago, Solomon discouraged him,
saying the chairmanship of rules would open up soon.
Solomon said he realized that after taking just five vacation
days in 20 years, he owed it to his wife, Freda, to spend more time
with her, his children and grandchildren. He also said he wanted to
make more money. He's paid $136,700.
Solomon insists his exit was not prompted by the fact that he
has only two years remaining in his chairmanship under a 1994
Republican caucus rule limiting committee chairmen to six years.
Solomon said he is confident that he could have become chairman
of another panel if he had finished his term as chairman of the
rules panel. For example, he might have taken over the helm of the
Veterans' Affairs Committee, Solomon says.
The spread of sex-change chemicals in the environment could soon
be tracked with a test that uses tadpoles and liver cells of frogs.
The test, developed in Germany, takes only two days to work.
The sex-changing chemicals, which mimic female hormones such as
estrogen, are present in many pesticides and plastics. They are
causing increasing concern because they have been implicated in
breast cancer and declining sperm counts, and may also interfere
with fetal development.
The new test, developed by Werner Kloas and his colleagues at
Karlsruhe University, involves exposing cultures of liver cells
from the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis to the chemical in
question.
The solution is then checked for vitellogenin-mRNA, the first in
a series of compounds produced after an estrogen receptor in a
liver cell has been activated. To make this possible, the
researchers first use the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, which
can make millions of copies of a single piece of DNA or RNA.
But Kloas warns that it is often difficult to tell to what
extent chemicals that mimic estrogen will disrupt sexual
development.
So his test involves a further stage in which xenopus tadpoles
are immersed in the chemical to see how it affects their sexual
development. If an unusually high proportion of the tadpoles
develop female characteristics, this indicates a strong estrogenic
effect.
Some researchers have suggested that estrogen-type chemicals
have reduced the proportion of male amphibians in the wild, and
that this is one reason why amphibian populations around the world
have declined. 
This is a car of surprises. At first glance, it reminds this
columnist of something British from the 1960s. It's from the other
end of the world.
It's slick, sleek, outfitted to the nines, and it exhibits very
fine road manners; it is a much better car than I would have
expected from a company called Daewoo. I had never seen a luxury
car from Daewoo nor do I remember a true luxury automobile from
any Korean manufacturer. At least, I had never driven one. Frankly,
I had expected a lot less than this Daewoo Laganza delivered.
The minimal expectations do not spring from any antipathy to
things Korean but from earlier experience with a Daewoo automobile a tinny little bucket dubbed Pontiac LeMans. Daewoo early on had
a partnership of sorts with General Motors, and it was a Daewoo of
small virtue that inherited the muscle car moniker during one of
GM's many product reshufflings. It was at best a very bad joke.
Daewoo has moved away from GM and looked toward a Porsche
executive, Ulrich Bez, for design expertise; Laganza, therefore, is
no joke but a fairly accurate Korean quotation of a European car.
There were a couple of other surprises, too. Although the price
of Laganza has not been set as of this writing, it may be a bargain
in today's market. The Americans in Daewoo want to price it around
$17,000; the Koreans see $20K as more reasonable an asking price.
Somewhere in the middle, would still be low for a nicely styled
five-passenger sedan with air conditioning, power everything, and
other amenities. The tested Laganza came with leather and a CD
player; perhaps those are meant to be options, perhaps not.
That brings us to the other surprise or disappointment: The
columnist is roadtesting a vehicle that isn't yet available. In
fact, the first New England dealership isn't open yet. The car is
expected to go on sale around Sept. 1.
It may well be worth serious consideration when it arrives.
Daewoo, while not exactly a household word around here, has been
making cars for enough years to have a track record. The company is
well established in Australia and Asia.
The Daewoo Laganza test car was so fresh off the factory boat
that it didn't even have a license plate, just a temporary sticker
in the back window issued in California. Nor did it have much on
the odometer essentially the mileage from where the truck dropped
it to my digs. For this assessment, since Daewoo is looking toward
youth for sales potential, I turned to daughter of Auto Writer, who
at 29 no longer considers herself youthful which comment always
elicits a guffaw from Daddy Gray Hair.
We pulled onto Route 202 heading for Biddeford and the Maine
Turnpike via Sanford, discovering along the way that the
2.198-liter (134.1 CID) four-cylinder had some guts. Good, but not
flashy off the line, it offered some reserve for passing you
don't have much room for that on Maine's rural roads. The engine,
however, whines loudly when you demand passing power.
A five-speed manual is available, but the test vehicle came with
a four-speed automatic, a smooth shifter that, while it sapped a
bit of performance from the little engine, didn't overwhelm it.
The air conditioning had an automatic mode but seemed to offer
only two genuine settings: too cool or too warm. We agreed on the
cooler choice.
Window switches of the convenient push/pull type favored by the
Japanese makers were mounted on the doors. A power mirror switch is
on the left end of the dash. The glove box is small, but door bins,
a small covered bin between the seats, and pockets in the seat
backs helped with storage. A lid in front of the bin covers two
cupholders. The trunk is good got the acid test with a bookcase but the rear seats do not fold down to add cargo room. Legroom and
headroom are good front and rear, despite a sunroof with a sliding
inner panel opening that inner door brightened up the interior
considerably.
The ride up the coast was pleasant, the tour of Owls Head
Transportation Museum delightful although planes were being
taxied toward cover as rain threatened. The rain arrived and
thundered on the roof for a few minutes, ending in a burst of
sunlight. The ride back down the coast was pleasantly uneventful.
We stopped for dinner in Wiscasset, sadly eyeing the last remnants
of the abandoned schooners Hesper and Luther Little being uprooted
from the harbor bottom.
She slowed appropriately; the Daewoo splashed along. The AC had
achieved something of a comfort equilibrium. She had never needed
the antilock brakes; I used them later gratefully. She had lights
at home.
The storm passed as we hit Lowell, but I hit it again on my
return to the New Hampshire den I inhabit torrential rain, more
heavenly fireworks, and, finally, the sudden need for ABS because
someone else had proven ... unwise.
Only time will prove it, but the Daewoo looks like serious
competition. Daughter I can't call her the kid anymore is
checking the budget to see if, maybe .... Wait a year, kid.
The spread of sex-change chemicals in the environment could soon
be tracked with a test that uses tadpoles and liver cells of frogs.
The test, developed in Germany, takes only two days to work.
The sex-changing chemicals, which mimic female hormones such as
estrogen, are present in many pesticides and plastics. They are
causing increasing concern because they have been implicated in
breast cancer and declining sperm counts, and may also interfere
with fetal development.
The new test, developed by Werner Kloas and his colleagues at
Karlsruhe University, involves exposing cultures of liver cells
from the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis to the chemical in
question.
The solution is then checked for vitellogenin-mRNA, the first in
a series of compounds produced after an estrogen receptor in a
liver cell has been activated. To make this possible, the
researchers first use the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, which
can make millions of copies of a single piece of DNA or RNA.
But Kloas warns that it is often difficult to tell to what
extent chemicals that mimic estrogen will disrupt sexual
development.
So his test involves a further stage in which xenopus tadpoles
are immersed in the chemical to see how it affects their sexual
development. If an unusually high proportion of the tadpoles
develop female characteristics, this indicates a strong estrogenic
effect.
Some researchers have suggested that estrogen-type chemicals
have reduced the proportion of male amphibians in the wild, and
that this is one reason why amphibian populations around the world
have declined. 
The small suction device draws off the fluid which often
contains toxins and bacteria generated by an inflammatory trauma
response within the wound. It is this fluid which blocks key blood
vessels and leads to necrosis the death of surrounding tissue.
Until now, repairing necrotic skin would have meant expensive
plastic surgery and a long stay in the hospital.
But hopes have been raised in Australia after doctors
successfully treated a 42-year-old woman for a wound caused by a
tiger snake's bite.
With a vacuum technique normally used for treating wounds caused
by accidents or gunshots, Ian Holten, a plastic surgeon from the
Geelong Hospital near Melbourne, extracted half a liter of fluid
from the victim's wound in 24 hours. As a result, blood was able to
flow normally again, promoting the growth of healthy tissue.
Holten reported the tiger snake case in May at the Annual
Scientific Congress of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons in
Sydney.
It is the first time the newly developed vacuum-assisted closure
(VAC) device, has been used to reduce the often devastating
aftereffects of a snakebite.
Invented by Louis Argenta, a plastic surgeon from the Bowman
Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem,
N.C., the VAC wound system is being made by a Texas-based company,
Kinetic Concepts. Argenta says that by getting rid of fluid, the
VAC can make wounds heal four times faster than they would
otherwise.
The tiger snake victim had been bitten on the foot. Although her
life was saved by an antivenin injection, a hole 3 centimeters
square opened up around the bite, and her foot swelled and became
painful. Holten put a foam dressing in the hole then used a thin
plastic film to seal the area. Then, using the vacuum pump, which
was attached to a tube embedded in the foam, he sucked off the
fluid.
Next, Holten wants to test the technique on a patient whose leg
has ulcerated from toe to knee after being bitten by Australia's
venomous white-tailed spider.
But Ken Winkel from the Australian Venom Research Unit at the
University of Melbourne says it is far too early to know if the
technique will become a commonplace way to deal with the effects of
bites.
The small suction device draws off the fluid which often
contains toxins and bacteria generated by an inflammatory trauma
response within the wound. It is this fluid which blocks key blood
vessels and leads to necrosis the death of surrounding tissue.
Until now, repairing necrotic skin would have meant expensive
plastic surgery and a long stay in the hospital.
But hopes have been raised in Australia after doctors
successfully treated a 42-year-old woman for a wound caused by a
tiger snake's bite.
With a vacuum technique normally used for treating wounds caused
by accidents or gunshots, Ian Holten, a plastic surgeon from the
Geelong Hospital near Melbourne, extracted half a liter of fluid
from the victim's wound in 24 hours. As a result, blood was able to
flow normally again, promoting the growth of healthy tissue.
Holten reported the tiger snake case in May at the Annual
Scientific Congress of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons in
Sydney.
It is the first time the newly developed vacuum-assisted closure
(VAC) device, has been used to reduce the often devastating
aftereffects of a snakebite.
Invented by Louis Argenta, a plastic surgeon from the Bowman
Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem,
N.C., the VAC wound system is being made by a Texas-based company,
Kinetic Concepts. Argenta says that by getting rid of fluid, the
VAC can make wounds heal four times faster than they would
otherwise.
The tiger snake victim had been bitten on the foot. Although her
life was saved by an antivenin injection, a hole 3 centimeters
square opened up around the bite, and her foot swelled and became
painful. Holten put a foam dressing in the hole then used a thin
plastic film to seal the area. Then, using the vacuum pump, which
was attached to a tube embedded in the foam, he sucked off the
fluid.
Next, Holten wants to test the technique on a patient whose leg
has ulcerated from toe to knee after being bitten by Australia's
venomous white-tailed spider.
But Ken Winkel from the Australian Venom Research Unit at the
University of Melbourne says it is far too early to know if the
technique will become a commonplace way to deal with the effects of
bites.
Matsushita and its rivals Sony and TDK have been developing
metal-evaporated tape for 20 years, but it has only been used for
broadcast-quality digital recording because it is so expensive. ME
tape is very thin, allowing more video to be stored in a small
cassette. But this makes it inefficient for recording analogue
signals, which require a thick magnetic layer to capture low
frequencies.
The latest consumer video format, digital video, records both
sound and vision as high-frequency digital code, which can be
faithfully captured in a very thin magnetic coating.
Matsushita thinks DV users will pay a premium for cassettes that
increase recording time from 80 to 120 minutes.
Previous ME tapes have needed a backing 7 micrometers thick to
withstand the strain of traveling through a video recorder. This
has limited tape length in the cassette to 80 minutes. With the DLC
backing, Matsushita can make do with 4.8 micrometres, creating tape
which is only 5.5 micrometres thick in total. 
Matsushita and its rivals Sony and TDK have been developing
metal-evaporated tape for 20 years, but it has only been used for
broadcast-quality digital recording because it is so expensive. ME
tape is very thin, allowing more video to be stored in a small
cassette. But this makes it inefficient for recording analogue
signals, which require a thick magnetic layer to capture low
frequencies.
The latest consumer video format, digital video, records both
sound and vision as high-frequency digital code, which can be
faithfully captured in a very thin magnetic coating.
Matsushita thinks DV users will pay a premium for cassettes that
increase recording time from 80 to 120 minutes.
Previous ME tapes have needed a backing 7 micrometers thick to
withstand the strain of traveling through a video recorder. This
has limited tape length in the cassette to 80 minutes. With the DLC
backing, Matsushita can make do with 4.8 micrometres, creating tape
which is only 5.5 micrometres thick in total. 
It is easy to dump waste in deep-ocean trenches far harder to
check that it hasn't seeped from its containers into the sea. Now,
though, colonies of glowing bacteria offer hope. When they sense
pollution in the water around them, they get dimmer.
Working with colleagues at the institute and at the U.S. Naval
Research Laboratory in Washington D.C., Jones has screened 10
species of luminous bacteria from fish and marine mammals. One of
the most promising is Photobacterium phosphoreum HE-1a, isolated
from the deep-sea fish Paratrachichthys prosthemius. In a
laboratory pressure chamber, the bacteria survived pressures of up
to 31 megapascals more than 300 times atmospheric pressure equivalent to a depth of around 3,000 meters.
The researchers found that P. phosphoreum HE-1a glowed up to 50
percent less brightly when exposed to a variety of potential
pollutants. These included heavy metals such as zinc, copper and
cobalt, as well as chemical pollutants, including pesticides,
polychlorinated biphenyls and polyaromatic hydrocarbons typically
found in oily wastes.
Jones and collaborators at the university's Center of Marine
Biotechnology have built a prototype cell that exposes a living
colony of the bacteria to seawater samples filtered through a
semipermeable membrane. A digital camera monitors the intensity of
light coming from the colony. When the cell is deployed on the
seafloor, any dimming of the usual signal can alert neighboring
sensors or samplers. The signals could be monitored remotely on
land or on a ship or rig.
To keep the colony alive, the bacteria will need to be fed from
a buoy or platform on the surface, from which nutrients could be
pumped down at a constant rate. Dead or aging bacteria would be
continuously jettisoned to keep the colony fresh.
He says the sentinel could provide a useful tool for evaluating
whether proposals for deep-sea dumping would be as environmentally
benign as their advocates claim.
Jones and his colleagues presented their preliminary findings
last month in Atlanta at the annual meeting of the American Society
for Microbiology. Their development highlights growing interest in
the use of light-emitting bacteria as sensors.
Last month, researchers at Britain's chemical and biological
defense laboratory at Porton Down, Wiltshire, reported that glowing
bacteria could be used to detect the use of chemical weapons. 
It is easy to dump waste in deep-ocean trenches far harder to
check that it hasn't seeped from its containers into the sea. Now,
though, colonies of glowing bacteria offer hope. When they sense
pollution in the water around them, they get dimmer.
Working with colleagues at the institute and at the U.S. Naval
Research Laboratory in Washington D.C., Jones has screened 10
species of luminous bacteria from fish and marine mammals. One of
the most promising is Photobacterium phosphoreum HE-1a, isolated
from the deep-sea fish Paratrachichthys prosthemius. In a
laboratory pressure chamber, the bacteria survived pressures of up
to 31 megapascals more than 300 times atmospheric pressure equivalent to a depth of around 3,000 meters.
The researchers found that P. phosphoreum HE-1a glowed up to 50
percent less brightly when exposed to a variety of potential
pollutants. These included heavy metals such as zinc, copper and
cobalt, as well as chemical pollutants, including pesticides,
polychlorinated biphenyls and polyaromatic hydrocarbons typically
found in oily wastes.
Jones and collaborators at the university's Center of Marine
Biotechnology have built a prototype cell that exposes a living
colony of the bacteria to seawater samples filtered through a
semipermeable membrane. A digital camera monitors the intensity of
light coming from the colony. When the cell is deployed on the
seafloor, any dimming of the usual signal can alert neighboring
sensors or samplers. The signals could be monitored remotely on
land or on a ship or rig.
To keep the colony alive, the bacteria will need to be fed from
a buoy or platform on the surface, from which nutrients could be
pumped down at a constant rate. Dead or aging bacteria would be
continuously jettisoned to keep the colony fresh.
He says the sentinel could provide a useful tool for evaluating
whether proposals for deep-sea dumping would be as environmentally
benign as their advocates claim.
Jones and his colleagues presented their preliminary findings
last month in Atlanta at the annual meeting of the American Society
for Microbiology. Their development highlights growing interest in
the use of light-emitting bacteria as sensors.
Last month, researchers at Britain's chemical and biological
defense laboratory at Porton Down, Wiltshire, reported that glowing
bacteria could be used to detect the use of chemical weapons. 
The bull market in stocks has been long and lovely, but even
unsophisticated mutual fund investors understand the nature of
market risk. If the prices of many stocks in a fund's portfolio
drop, fund holders will lose, too.
Understanding a fund's exposure to liquidity risk, however, is
quite another matter. Liquidity risk is the possibility that the
price of a stock will drop, and therefore may push down the fund's
net asset value, when a manager tries to sell a large position. Or
that the price will climb, forcing a manager to pay too much when
buying a large chunk.
Unless investors have examined a fund's holdings in each stock
and compared them with the total shares outstanding in the company,
it is tough to fathom such risk for a particular fund.
Although it is not much of a concern in large-cap stock funds,
liquidity risk can wreak real havoc in micro-cap funds, which
invest in fledgling companies with market values of $250 million or
less. Positions in such companies are much harder to get in and out
of without roiling the market.
How damaging can illiquid stocks be to a portfolio? Plenty, as
shareholders in two Dreyfus small-cap stock funds, Premier
Aggressive Growth A, with $264 million in assets, and Aggressive
Growth, at $77 million, are finding out.
Indeed, these two funds are textbook examples of the perils of
illiquidity. So far this year, through Thursday, shareholders in
Premier Aggressive Growth have lost 13.5 percent; those in
Aggressive Growth are down 18 percent. As a benchmark, the Wilshire
Small-Cap index is up 10.8 percent. Last year, Premier Aggressive
Growth was down 13 percent; Aggressive Growth lost almost 16
percent.
Performance like this may explain the April news that the funds'
manager since August 1995, Michael L. Schonberg, was being joined
by Paul A. LaRocco, late of Founders Asset Management in Denver,
who was named the primary manager. Mellon Bank Corp. owns both the
Founders and Dreyfus fund companies.
For the two and a half years that Schonberg ran the fund alone,
he bought speculative technology or biotechnology companies with
few shares outstanding. He even borrowed money to buy shares.
How illiquid are some of the holdings? Frighteningly so.
According to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher, the
median market capitalization of the larger of the two funds,
Premier Aggressive Growth, is a Lilliputian $157 million. Across
the micro-cap fund category, only 20 percent of funds have a median
market capitalization this small or smaller.
The median market cap of Aggressive Growth is even smaller, at
$87 million. Only 10 percent of micro-cap funds in Morningstar's
universe have median market values that tiny.
More than 10 percent of Premier Aggressive Growth's assets are
in stocks that trade at $5 a share or less. In the Aggressive
Growth fund, 20 percent fall in that range.
Another measure of both funds' high risk levels can be found in
the concentration of fund holdings. As of April, Premier Aggressive
Growth held 70 stocks; each of the top six holdings accounted for
between 4 percent and 7 percent of the fund's assets.
Aggressive Growth was even more concentrated, at 54 stocks. Its
No. 1 holding, a cosmetics and medical technology concern called
Chromatics Color Science International, accounted for almost 13
percent of the fund's assets. That's staggering, given that a top
holding in a fund typically accounts for 2 percent to 3 percent of
assets.
Dreyfus is making a big bet on Chromatics Color Science, a
company that was brought public in 1993 by Investors Associates, a
brokerage firm that closed last year after a number of state
securities regulators revoked its license. Chromatics Color Science
trades around $11.50, down from $17.25 in March. Dreyfus owned 1.5
million shares as of March, more than 10 percent of the company's
shares outstanding.
The bet on Chromatics is not the only big gamble fund holders
have made. Almost 30 percent of the assets in Premier Aggressive
Growth are stocks of obscure companies in which Dreyfus owns more
than 5 percent of the shares outstanding. In the Aggressive Growth
fund, 67 percent of the assets are stocks of companies in which
Dreyfus owns more than 5 percent of shares.
This concentration in illiquid stocks is fine when the fund
manager is buying. As the buying wave rises, so does the stock's
price. This in turn raises the fund's net asset value, making the
bet look smart.
But when the buying dries up, trouble begins. If the stock does
not have positive earnings or other good news to support it, the
price begins to flag. The bigger the position, the harder it is to
get out. Which is precisely the predicament that LaRocco finds
himself in at Dreyfus.
Of course, if the funds sell many stocks at a loss, any gains
going forward under their new manager may be offset. That is the
only silver lining to the liquidity cloud hanging over these mutual
funds.
Q. I plan to put a Pergo floor, the laminated plastic, in my
kitchen, but I am concerned as to what the table and chairs will do
to it, such as scratching. And, is a Pergo floor too slippery when
wet?
A. While the Pergo is guaranteed for 15 years (not long for a
floor), any floor surface except a rug will be scratched, or at
least is likely to be scratched by a moving chair, especially if
one tiny grain of sand gets between leg and floor. And that goes
for Pergo, varnished wood, linoleum, sheet vinyl, resilient tile,
and ceramic tile. Of course, some, such as glazed tile, are more
resistant to scratching than others.
But there is hope: Put a glide at the ends of the table and
chair legs. It can be felt, which works well but wears out quickly,
but better is a nylon glide that can be nailed into the ends of
legs. A more permanent cure is to put area rugs under tables and
chairs. Simple, but logical.
As for slipperiness, any smooth, hard, shiny surface is slippery
when wet, but Pergo is not necessarily slipperier than any other
surface. It is a matter of staying off a newly-washed floor until
it dries, and to wipe up liquid spills quickly (any spills, really)
before someone trips, slips and falls.
Q. I am having the clapboards of my old (1834) Greek Revival
house painted. I want white, but the painter said to paint it
yellow or blue to prevent nails from rusting. Do I really have to
make it yellow or blue?
A. Now, there is an old wives' tale to beat all old wives'
tales. If nails are rusting, color makes no difference; the rust
will come right through any paint. The only cure for rusting nails
is to pull each one and replace it with a stainless steel siding
nail, which, incidentally, will hold better than the old nails
anyway. Even dabbing a bit of metal primer over each nail will not
solve the problem.
Even if the nails are countersunk and filled with a filler of
some sort (and the rust is showing through the filter), the
condition is incurable except by replacing the nails. And because
the clapboards are only about 1/4 inch thick, the nails cannot be
deeply countersunk (or they'll go all the way through), and wood
filler will not hold very well in such a shallow hole.
Q. My small house is on a slab, with heat and air conditioning
coming from ducts in the ceiling. The paint is peeling on the
ceiling around the duct openings. How can I prevent that?
A. What is happening: Moist air in the ducts is condensing right
at the opening of the duct, which is cool, and spreading to the
ceiling, where the dampness is causing the peeling. So, check the
insulation on the attic floor to make sure it is snug against the
ducts, and make sure the ducts themselves are well insulated, with
no gaps. If the insulation seems flimsy (an inch or so thick), add
another layer of duct insulation and make sure all seams and holes
in the insulation are covered with duct tape or a similar tape that
will keep them sealed.
Then sand the peeling paint smooth and apply two thin coats of
latex ceiling paint. You may have to repaint the entire ceiling.
The paint also might have peeled because it was applied too
thickly, and that is why two thin coats will perform better and
resist peeling better than one or two thick coats.
Q. I am having a house built in New Hampshire, and I would like
two-inch-wide louvered strips in the soffits, the full length of
the soffits. Where can I find such strips?
A. I know of no building supply store or lumber store that does
not carry them. They are common, because such strips are the state
of the art for attic ventilation, in conjunction with ridge vents.
Such soffit strips are two inches wide and 10 feet long, and fit
easily into a two-inch-wide opening in the soffit. They are better
than an occasional louver, say 8 by 12 inches or 4 by 12 inches or
so, and are a lot better than the round louvers. The strips are
insect-proof, and are also better looking than any other louvered
device. They come in white and other colors. A black strip would
look good.
Another good soffit vent is a simple two- or three-inch-wide
opening, the full length of the soffit, screened with black
screening. The screening can go on the back of the soffit or on its
face. If it is applied to the face, a small molding trim should be
applied to cover the raw edges of the screen and to hold it in
place. Such a black screened vent will give the eaves an extra
architectural look. Addition of square or rectangular vents, or
worse yet, round louvers, will look like a jury rig.
 UFtagline Call in your questions on 617-929-2930. Globe
Handyman on Call Peter Hotton is available on Tuesdays from 1 p.m.
to 6 p.m. to answer telephone questions on house repair. Hotton
will chat on line about house matters Thursdays, 1-2 p.m. To
participate, point your Internet browser to http://www.boston.com and use keyword: chat.
NEW YORK There's Betsey, her hair in gravity-defying Raggedy
Ann orange pigtails, dressed for success in a bra-revealing
bustier, tightly laced over a teeny flowered minidress worn over
black leggings and, for comic relief, striped socks and sparkly
blue platform shoes.
And then there's Lulu in a simple black cardigan, her blond hair
hanging down her back, her long, slim legs encased in black
boot-cut pants. The only thing they seem to have in common is
matching tattoos a lightning bolt over the left breast.
If Betsey Johnson, 55, isn't exactly growing up she ended her
latest Bryant Park fashion show with a trademark cartwheel her
daughter, Lulu, 23, who is in charge of the designer's Ultra line,
has definitely brought a new level of sophistication to her
mother's fashion carnival.
Betsey Johnson picks her daughter up every morning for work.
They share an office space with desks that face each other. They
giggle, constantly interrupt each other, complete each other's
sentences and generally act like joined-at-the-hip best friends without ever losing sight of the bottom line.
The Betsey Johnson company, which was founded in 1978 by Ms.
Johnson and a partner, Chantal Bacon, now has 23 outlets and had
revenues of $38 million last year, Ms. Bacon said. In 1995, the
company introduced the pricier Ultra line, which is aimed at the
designer-label buyer and Ms. Johnson's celebrity clients, including
Jenn
Lulu earned her fashion stripes working as a runway model in her
mother's shows, and as a salesgirl in the company's stores during
summer vacations. After high school, she went to work full time for
the company. Her biggest contribution may be that she represents
the company's target demographic. She keeps her mother abreast of
the club scene, the latest videos, the hottest new models.
But Lulu's fashion sense is at the other end of the spectrum
from her mother's punk, sex-kitten style. The clothes Lulu designs
for the Ultra line include slinky, hand-beaded slip dresses, tiny
cardigans, fake fur-trimmed embroidered satin coats and cashmere
separates.
The Ultra line, whose prices range from $300 to $2,500 more
expensive than the original Betsey Johnson line is the most
obvious effort to give the company legs. It tends to appeal to a
more sophisticated customer than the typical buyer of Betsey
Johnson's signature clothes.
A few days before Fashion Week, everybody t the Betsey Johnson
showroom was engaged in the same activity frantically nailing
rhinestones to skimpy garments for the designer's show. Manning
their stud guns, dozens of assistants looked like Santa's elves, if
Santa were based in Las Vegas. Paper-doll thin Irene Wright, the
company's fitting model, sidled in in a gold lame dress.
Betsey and Lulu set to work adjusting the dress, which fastened
up the front with hooks and eyes that reveal a gold-lace bra.
Betsey pinned the garment until it was skin-tight, then decided it
should be shorter.
Instead, the four films, starting at 8 p.m. CDT Tuesday, are
touching and funny, insightful and quirky, sharp and even a little
odd. All carry the independent's stamp of risk, individuality and
freshness that comes from filmmakers with nothing to lose and
everything to gain, like a trip to Sundance or, heck, Cannes.
Top-notch performances come from all those involved,
particularly Kashmir Jones, who plays the young girl who narrates
but doesn't speak until the end, and Karen Young, playing her
bewildered mother. This is rare in such low-budget films.
We even get to learn a thing or two about the filmmakers. They
appear with host Penny Marshall to answer her sometimes silly,
sometimes serious questions about their craft.
Hart is based in London. According to her bio, her projects
range from studio features to documentaries for the BBC. She shares
the story of becoming a filmmaker after tiring of being an agent
and baby sitter for writers and directors.
ALBANY, N.Y. The thousands of pale, lifeless faces he has
gazed upon over four decades don't haunt him. Most of the names are
a blur. It's the images of the organs abnormal or lacerated,
poisoned or punctured that remain with Dr. Michael Baden.
The corpses Baden has examined through the years the heroin
overdoses and motor vehicle fatalities and victims of drug deals
gone bad among them never made the headlines.
But Baden is best known for being a key figure in examining some
of the most spectacular deaths of this and other generations, from
the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and civil rights leaders Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. and Medgar Evers, to the deaths of comedian
John Belushi and Czar Nicholas of Russia, to the autopsies of
victims of Trans World Airlines Flight 800.
The spotlight on this coroner-cum-celebrity pathologist reached
its zenith during the O.J. Simpson trial, when he testified on
behalf of the defense.
While Baden isn't shy about talking about his accomplishments,
he explains away some of the high-profile cases as a result of a
shortage of board-certified forensic pathologists in the country less than 300 by his count, with none found in 12 states.
Baden, 63, said the word that best encapsulates him in both his
job and his life is more descriptive than defining: interloper.
Because Baden is often called by the defense, some police
officers and prosecutors have tagged another label on him: Whore.
If you have Baden's fee of $2,500 a day plus expenses, you have
yourself a witness.
Baden, who testifies primarily for the prosecution in New York
state, said people don't know of the many cases in which he is
retained but not called to testify by the defense because his
conclusions don't help a client. But that doesn't stop the enmity
of police who view him as undermining their brethren elsewhere.
Born in the Bronx in 1934, Baden was what was then commonly
called a hellion one wild child.
There is a wildness to Baden that lingers today, from his
longish, hair to his shirttail that struggles to free itself to a
fondness for sloppy-but-casual attire. A hulking figure, he first
appears to be a younger man worn down too quickly, until you learn
his age. Then his dominant feature emerges a boundless energy
that has co-workers scrambling to ensure Baden is not scheduling
himself to be three places at once.
By the time Baden was released from reform school at age 9, the
family had moved to the Fort Green housing projects in Brooklyn,
where his dad worked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Baden said he and
his brother were the only Jews in the complex.
Prompted by a mother who, reform school or not, envisioned her
son a doctor, Baden went on to City College, and then New York
University School of Medicine, before serving as an intern, then
resident at Bellevue Hospital.
Tucked in Bellevue was the New York City Medical Examiner's
Office. Baden was drawn there not just because of its proximity,
but also out of a desire to learn the human body from the inside
out.
From 1961-86, Baden worked in the New York City Medical
Examiner's Office, serving as chief medical examiner from 1978 to
1979 before a rift resulted in his demotion by Mayor Ed Koch.
Baden took a lot of heat from the State Police and elsewhere for
his testimony for the defense in the Simpson case. Baden's theory
is there was more than one assailant and the attack took more than
10 minutes, damaging prosecution claims.
The man who embraces death is against the death penalty. Baden
said his opposition to capital punishment is not rooted in
philosophical or theological reasoning, but rather the fact that
authorities sometimes arrest the wrong person.
Baden, who has courted the news media throughout his career, is
colorful and upfront with his responses (too upfront for some
colleagues).
Pless, who is also a professor at the Indiana University School
of Medicine, said that despite concerns of some, he doesn't buy the
notion that Baden is a hired gun willing to testify to anything to
suit a client.
For the most part, death has treated Baden well. He is famous
and paid handsomely, an outsider who has been on the inside of
high-profile cases coast to coast. To him, death and demise are not
synonymous.
(Ken Parish Perkins is television critic for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. You can contact him at (817) 390-7862. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
Q. I am 38, and my current investments include a 401(k) plan of
$30,269, almost evenly divided between Vanguard Index 500 and PIMCo
Stocks Plus funds, to which I have been adding $5,000 a year and
which is fully matched by my employer. I also have been investing
$2,400 a year in American Century Value fund, where the current
balance is $12,433, and $600 a year in Putnam New Opportunities
fund, where the balance is $5,552. Finally, I have a $12,718 IRA to
which I am no longer contributing in American Century Value. I
would like to leave my current job at the beginning of the year
2001 to work at a lower-paying, less stressful company or perhaps
to begin a career in a new field. In that case, I probably would
cut my investments to a rate of $2,000 a year. How do you suggest I
maximize my investments over the next few years, and how should I
invest the additional $2,000 a year I would be saving until
retirement? I realize if I stay with my current employer until
retirement I stand to gain financially, but I am just as interested
in living a life that is rich in personal fulfillment.
A. Yes, money isn't everything. And since you've made a solid
start on retirement savings at a fairly young age, you should end
up with a pretty substantial nest egg at age 65.
Presuming average 10 percent annual portfolio returns in all
these calculations, if you continue saving at the current rate for
the next 30 months you would have accumulated $114,470 by the time
of your contemplated career change. If you then slowed down to
$2,000 annual contributions for the next 24 1/2 years, the pool
would be $1,379,410 at age 65.
The problem with those tidy calculations is inflation, an
unknown of massive importance. Over the course of 27 years,
inflation can take an awful bite out of the buying power of a nest
egg.
You might begin by examining what kind of income stream
$1,379,410 might produce. If it were invested to yield an average
6.5 percent, it would bring in $89,661 a year, which at first seems
a tidy sum. But if inflation runs at 4 percent during those 27
years, that $89,661 comes to $31,095 in today's money; if inflation
is only 3 percent, that would give you $40,364 a year in current
buying power.
You will have to decide if you are comfortable with those
numbers or would rather try to develop a second career that's
less stressful than your current one, yet that would still allow
you to save more than $2,000 a year toward retirement.
As for the portfolio itself, I think it's a little top-heavy.
Your two primary vehicles Vanguard Index 500 and PIMCo Stocks
Plus are very similar, investing in a blend of growth and value
large-cap issues. In the mid-cap arena, you achieve much the same
balance, opposing the mid-cap value-oriented American Century Value
with the mid-cap growth-oriented Putnam New Dimensions. But why not
diversify further?
First, I would suggest a solid small-cap fund such as Vanguard
Small-Cap Stock Index or Fidelity Low-Priced Stock. Second, I would
add a health care fund. The latter should be a solid and fairly
conservative health care fund conservative in that it gives only
modest weight to biotech or HMO issues; examples, among others,
would be Fidelity Select Health Care and Vanguard Specialized
Health Care.
I suggest moving 10 percent of the portfolio to each of these
sectors, giving the portfolio better diversification and reducing
reliance on the large-cap area.
Of course, you couldn't make such a move unless your 401(k)
offers small-cap and/or health care options, but you could make the
move after you change careers and move the 401(k) funds into an
IRA. With such a long time until retirement, those 2 1/2 years
shouldn't have a big effect on the long-term numbers.
Q. I am 62 and retired. My income is $70,000 a year, coming from
a government pension, Social Security, and dividends. My portfolio
is entirely with Vanguard, consisting of $158,000 in the California
Tax-Free Money Market fund, $173,000 in the California Tax-Free
Insured Long Term Bond fund, $136,000 in Vanguard Index 500,
$63,000 in Vanguard GNMA, and $195,000 in Vanguard Wellington (of
which $61,000 is in an IRA account). Does this mix of assets make
sense, and do you think staying exclusively with Vanguard is risky?
A. I think the portfolio is pretty conservative, but you don't
give me many hints about your appetite for risk, or how that
$70,000 of income relates to your needs.
Calculating 65 percent of your Vanguard Wellington positions as
stocks and then adding in the Index 500 holding, I come up with a
bit more than 36 percent of the portfolio in stocks.
I realize this number represents a pretty typical equity holding
for a retiree, but I believe relatively early retirees, and those
who have amassed significant savings pools, might look to a
somewhat higher number.
Early retirees want more stock because they can anticipate more
years during which inflation will be attacking the value of their
income stream, and affluent retirees look to a heavier stock
allocation because they usually can afford to ride out market
bumps.
If you were to shift the IRA money that's now in Vanguard
Wellington to a conservative all-stock fund such as Vanguard Index
Value, it would boost the equity side of the portfolio to a little
more than 39 percent, and would not have a terribly significant
effect on the yield from the holding a reduction of $1,059 at
current rates.
As for whether it's risky to have all your portfolio with
Vanguard, I think you have very little to worry about. Each of the
separate funds is its own business entity, with its assets held
apart from those of the parent company or other funds in the
family.
Whatever might happen to any one fund, or to the parent company
itself, would have no effect on the financial stability of any
other fund. And second, given Vanguard's fundamental conservatism
and stingy habits when it comes to spending money, I see very
little prospect of any trouble ahead.
 Kenneth Hooker will answer selected investors' questions in the
Sunday MutualFunds and Monday Money sections. Send letters,
including your name, address, and telephone number, to: Kenneth
Hooker, The Boston Globe, Boston, MA 02107-2378.
SEOUL, South Korea Fourteen years ago, Kim Dae-jung was a
pro-democracy activist living in exile in Washington, struggling
with his English and with American officials who saw him as a pest.
When President Kim of South Korea returns to the United States
for a nine-day state visit beginning Saturday, he will get better
treatment. This time he is to stay in Washington at Blair House,
the American government's official guest residence, and address a
joint session of Congress.
Kim, the onetime dissident who became South Korea's president in
February, will also get a state dinner at the White House, receive
a human rights award and pick up an honorary degree at Georgetown
University.
Kim has indeed lived long he is 74 and he credits his
survival in part to American intervention when Korean dictators
planned to kill him. That makes his state visit an especially
poignant moment, diplomats and Korean officials say.
Still, Kim acknowledged that in some respects he is now in the
position of the officials who fended him off when he was a
dissident. Asked if he sometimes faces a choice between his moral
principles and the dictates of statecraft, when he ponders whether
to speak out on issues like human rights in China, Kim nodded.
These days, Kim has emerged to some extent as a spokesman for
the region and not just his country. The state visit to America
will add to his stature and to this regional leadership role, a
role that he seems to relish.
Yet for Kim to sustain his role as a model for the region, he
will first have to overcome South Korea's economic crisis. And that
too is a reason for the state visit: Kim will begin his visit in
the financial capital of New York, not the political capital of
Washington, and he will emphasize South Korea's efforts to
restructure its economy and woo foreign investors.
After arriving in New York on Saturday and helping open the
Korea Wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and speaking to
several organizations, Kim is to go to Washington on Monday for a
meeting with President Clinton and his speech to Congress.
On Thursday, he will travel to California and deliver a speech
at Stanford University and visit Silicon Valley, whose
entrepreneurial spirit Kim greatly admires. On June 12 he will go
on to Los Angeles, a center for Korean-Americans, and will leave
for home the next day.
The visit is also likely to buoy Kim politically at home.
Initially he was hailed as virtually a national savior when he took
office, even as he lectured his nation on the need to accept the
pain of layoffs and restructuring. But in recent weeks, some Korean
business analysts have said the steam has gone out of his
initiatives.
Not surprisingly, Kim disagrees. He said he is concerned about
rising unemployment but still confident that South Korea is on the
right track to recreate itself as a more open and market-oriented
economy.
One major concern for foreign investors has been the militancy
of South Korean labor unions, which have been hostile to layoffs
and have turned to strikes and sometimes violence to resist
restructuring. The unions have agreed to postpone strikes until
Kim's return from the United States, however, and Kim argues that
the worst is over for the labor unrest.
In his dissident days, Kim was closely allied with labor groups,
but now he seems concerned that they will frighten investors and
block his efforts to create a more flexible market economy.
Apparently seeking to reassure foreigners that the unions have
not gained the upper hand in Korea, he said in the interview that
he will use the full authority of the government to crack down on
unions that violate the law.
The career of Robert F. Kennedy was made for legend: the
youthful privilege giving way to early sorrow, the transformation
from bare-knuckled political operative to compassionate spokesman
for the underdog, the life cut short as its climax seemed within
reach.
A three-hour memoir, which arrives soon after the 30th
anniversary of his assassination, taps the affections of those who
knew him well and can only burnish the image.
Memory may have softened reality and added a glow, but the
television audience can still learn much from the likes of Arthur
Schlesinger Jr., Rep. John Lewis and Richard Goodwin about the
hopes he aroused and the causes in which he enlisted.
Newsreels carry the story from the young man's brief association
with Sen. Joseph McCarthy through his zealous attacks on mobsters
and corrupt labor leaders like James Hoffa; from his tough-minded
services to his brother John as campaigner, attorney general and
intimate adviser through his emergence as a moral force as senator
from New York and in his campaign for the 1968 Democratic
presidential nomination.
Kennedy's accomplishments never matched the promise that his
admirers detected in him, but that only adds to the sorrow for the
young knight felled prematurely and for what might have been.
Such is the legacy being advanced by this memoir. How realistic
that assessment is must be left to more objective scholars, but at
the least they will have to take such prospects or dreams into
their own cooler accounts.
Steven Manuel, executive producer for the Discovery Channel;
Jack Newfield, co-producer and reporter; produced and directed by
Charles Stuart; written by Newfield and Stuart; edited by Cob
Carlson; original music by Tom Phillips; narrated by Glenn Close,
Mario Cuomo and Ving Rhames. A production of Stuart Television
Productions Inc. 
When I moved to a quarter-acre property in central New Jersey 20
years ago, I wasn't interested in shrubs. I thought that they were
all overwhelming in size and that their lack of color, fragrance
and seasonal change made them unsuitable for my small beds.
It took me a while, however, to realize how wrong I had been. In
the beginning, as many other gardeners have done, I concentrated on
perennials and bulbs so that I could have a flowing tapestry of
color from spring through fall in my long, narrow borders.
After 10 years, though, I knew something was still missing. In
winter, the beds were bare and boring. In spring, emerging
perennials provided little variation in height. By summer, my
packed flowers needed a solid, stable block of form to tie together
their many elements. And in fall, it would have been nice to have a
stalwart architectural presence instead of a waning heap of plants.
Just at this time 1988 the Pennsylvania Horticultural
Society introduced its Gold Medal Award, singling out commercially
available woody ornamentals that are beautiful, low-maintenance,
hardy and underutilized. Each year, the winners are described in
the society's magazine, Green Scene.
I went to my local garden center, chose a sweetspire, and tucked
it into a shady corner at the back of my house. Its open, arching
branches look lovely as they shelter spring-blooming bulbs and
ground covers below and add form and structure in a small garden
area the rest of the year.
When I finished adding Hummingbird, I wanted more beautiful,
carefree garden workhorses like it in my small spaces. That meant I
had to explore mail-order catalogs because most of these plants
have yet to reach garden centers.
One of my first searches was for Rhodora (Rhododendron
canadense). Among the most cold-tolerant of the genus, this
deciduous plant had been recommended to me for its ease of care by
an officer of the American Rhododendron Society.
Thriving in either sun or shade, Rhodora bursts forth with large
rosy purple or white flowers in early spring. In fall, the foliage
turns a rather attractive yellow-brown. Though most literature says
Rhodora must be grown in moist conditions (it is native to bogs and
wet hillsides), my plant is in a raised bed and requires only a
weekly watering during dry spells.
To be honest, the dogwood stems were not as colorful over the
winter as I had hoped, and I have read that the leaves are
susceptible to disease and early drop. If this is true, Kelseyi
will disappear from my garden. That will not be a disaster. Unlike
in trials with large bushes, mistakes in experimenting with smaller
shrubs do not leave big, ugly spaces in borders.
NEW YORK Given all the 20th-century icons who have been
resurrected and paid homage to in the name of fashion, nothing is
more curious than the pedestal erected for that hapless bungler of
television fame Gilligan.
Then again, Gilligan is the apotheosis of simple chic compared
with those other castaways the movie star, the millionaire and
his wife who packed an astounding amount of clothes for a
three-hour tour. And Gilligan had the right idea: in tropical
weather, a hat protects the head and neck from the sun.
Moreover, given the natural impulse to dress down for summer in
a lightweight jacket, polo shirt and khakis, a good hat adds a
crucial bit of personality and polish to an otherwise lackluster
outfit.
Even so, there is no reason the Gilligan hat has to go into
reruns this summer. Even if one does not want to step out in a
dandified straw boater, there are any number of summer hats less
dowdy than our hero's.
At Barneys New York, a jaunty black straw hat made in England by
Fred Bare, $60, is neat and crisp enough to wear with a suit, yet
equally apropos of a short-sleeve shirt and shorts.
A black striped straw hat by Rod Keenan, $265, also at Barneys,
is less versatile but much more stylish. Made of a finer weave, it
is also more comfortable and durable.
At Agnes B., on Greene Street in Soho, a narrow-brim hat, $83,
has an old-fashioned shape, but made in black leather, it has a
sharp, rakish cool.
At the venerable milliner Worth Worth, on Madison Avenue at
43rd Street, summer hat styles range from a simple, smart cotton
driving cap, $30, to a panoply of Panama hats in varying weaves,
styles and prices. A Baku straw snap-brim is $145, while Panama
Montecristi hats can cost up to $1,000, depending on the fineness
of the weave and of the jipijapa, the straw from which Panamas are
made.
At Bergdorf Goodman, the finest Panama hat is $495 and can be
squashed in a suitcase, within reason, and still snap back into
shape. A cowboy-style Panama with a leather hatband is $195 and has
a novel charm.
For those who still cling to the Gilligan ideal but want to
upgrade, Paul Stuart, on Madison Avenue at 45th Street, has a
waterproof fishing hat in a sleek black oiled cotton, $27.50. And
Prada sells a fishing-style hat in black or brown nylon for $214 perfect for those who feel marooned without a designer label.
This is a car of surprises. At first glance, it reminds this
columnist of something British from the 1960s. It's from the other
end of the world.
It's slick, sleek, outfitted to the nines, and it exhibits very
fine road manners; it is a much better car than I would have
expected from a company called Daewoo. I had never seen a luxury
car from Daewoo nor do I remember a true luxury automobile from
any Korean manufacturer. At least, I had never driven one. Frankly,
I had expected a lot less than this Daewoo Laganza delivered.
The minimal expectations do not spring from any antipathy to
things Korean but from earlier experience with a Daewoo automobile a tinny little bucket dubbed Pontiac LeMans. Daewoo early on had
a partnership of sorts with General Motors, and it was a Daewoo of
small virtue that inherited the muscle car moniker during one of
GM's many product reshufflings. It was at best a very bad joke.
Daewoo has moved away from GM and looked toward a Porsche
executive, Ulrich Bez, for design expertise; Laganza, therefore, is
no joke but a fairly accurate Korean quotation of a European car.
There were a couple of other surprises, too. Although the price
of Laganza has not been set as of this writing, it may be a bargain
in today's market. The Americans in Daewoo want to price it around
$17,000; the Koreans see $20K as more reasonable an asking price.
Somewhere in the middle, would still be low for a nicely styled
five-passenger sedan with air conditioning, power everything, and
other amenities. The tested Laganza came with leather and a CD
player; perhaps those are meant to be options, perhaps not.
That brings us to the other surprise or disappointment: The
columnist is roadtesting a vehicle that isn't yet available. In
fact, the first New England dealership isn't open yet. The car is
expected to go on sale around Sept. 1.
It may well be worth serious consideration when it arrives.
Daewoo, while not exactly a household word around here, has been
making cars for enough years to have a track record. The company is
well established in Australia and Asia.
The Daewoo Laganza test car was so fresh off the factory boat
that it didn't even have a license plate, just a temporary sticker
in the back window issued in California. Nor did it have much on
the odometer essentially the mileage from where the truck dropped
it to my digs. For this assessment, since Daewoo is looking toward
youth for sales potential, I turned to daughter of Auto Writer, who
at 29 no longer considers herself youthful which comment always
elicits a guffaw from Daddy Gray Hair.
We pulled onto Route 202 heading for Biddeford and the Maine
Turnpike via Sanford, discovering along the way that the
2.198-liter (134.1 CID) four-cylinder had some guts. Good, but not
flashy off the line, it offered some reserve for passing you
don't have much room for that on Maine's rural roads. The engine,
however, whines loudly when you demand passing power.
A five-speed manual is available, but the test vehicle came with
a four-speed automatic, a smooth shifter that, while it sapped a
bit of performance from the little engine, didn't overwhelm it.
The air conditioning had an automatic mode but seemed to offer
only two genuine settings: too cool or too warm. We agreed on the
cooler choice.
Window switches of the convenient push/pull type favored by the
Japanese makers were mounted on the doors. A power mirror switch is
on the left end of the dash. The glove box is small, but door bins,
a small covered bin between the seats, and pockets in the seat
backs helped with storage. A lid in front of the bin covers two
cupholders. The trunk is good got the acid test with a bookcase but the rear seats do not fold down to add cargo room. Legroom and
headroom are good front and rear, despite a sunroof with a sliding
inner panel opening that inner door brightened up the interior
considerably.
The ride up the coast was pleasant, the tour of Owls Head
Transportation Museum delightful although planes were being
taxied toward cover as rain threatened. The rain arrived and
thundered on the roof for a few minutes, ending in a burst of
sunlight. The ride back down the coast was pleasantly uneventful.
We stopped for dinner in Wiscasset, sadly eyeing the last remnants
of the abandoned schooners Hesper and Luther Little being uprooted
from the harbor bottom.
She slowed appropriately; the Daewoo splashed along. The AC had
achieved something of a comfort equilibrium. She had never needed
the antilock brakes; I used them later gratefully. She had lights
at home.
The storm passed as we hit Lowell, but I hit it again on my
return to the New Hampshire den I inhabit torrential rain, more
heavenly fireworks, and, finally, the sudden need for ABS because
someone else had proven ... unwise.
Only time will prove it, but the Daewoo looks like serious
competition. Daughter I can't call her the kid anymore is
checking the budget to see if, maybe .... Wait a year, kid.
The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories, in
advance, for use by NYTimes News Service clients.
AUTO-REVIEW (Undated) The Korean-made Daewoo won't be on the
US market until September, but it's a lot of car for the money. By
John R. White. (l and f coding.)
FINANCE-HOOKER (Undated) You're off to a good start in
planning for retirement, and a lower-paying job won't slow you down
too much. By Kenneth Hooker.
SAN FRANCISCO The San Francisco International Airport has
announced it will seek to expand its runways, a job that could
entail filling part of the San Francisco Bay. And that could cause
a landslide of environmental opposition.
Airport officials say chronic flight delays, the increasing
popularity of air travel and the introduction of larger planes make
it essential to upgrade the 60-year-old runways soon.
Airport officials said the possibilities range from filling the
Bay for extra space to building floating runways or raising them
out of the water like bridges.
But Will Travis, director of the Bay Area Conservation and
Development Commission, the agency that decides whether to issue
permits for Bay construction, said he believed the airport was
acting prematurely.
The airport's parallel runways are only 750 feet apart. While
planes can land side by side in good weather, all it takes is a few
clouds to force the airport to use only one runway, cutting in half
the number of planes that can land.
Over and over again this year, this reduction in the airport's
landing capacity has created a logjam of stranded planes at other
airports and caused hundreds of delays and cancellations in San
Francisco.
Martin said he was looking for a solution that would improve the
runways' ability to function in bad weather and handle large
planes, while at the same time reducing noise problems and
improving the Bay's overall environmental health.
Since the 1800s many thousands of acres of the Bay have been
filled in to build space for military bases, ports and airports,
industrial complexes, even cities.
Environmentalists say the fill has already endangered fish and
wildlife, disrupted the food chain and destroyed more than 90
percent of the wetlands in the region.
They say that to meet the demand for runway space, the airport
would most likely have to fill in part of the Bay, creating a host
of potential wildlife disruptions.
Among Christo's projects were a fabric fence that rolled through
Marin and Sonoma counties, and hundreds of yellow umbrellas he
placed on a Southern California hillside.
 Academic note: Wavy Gravy 's Camp Winnarainbow for Adults which starts in Laytonville, Calif., on Saturday and runs through
the next Sunday has added whip-cracking to the curriculum, which
already includes unicycling, trapeze, improvisation and sleeping on
mats in tepees.
 Some years ago, cartoonist Dan O'Neill incurred the wrath of
Disney with a drawing of Mickey Mouse in an un-family-rated
position. The cartoonist lost a legal battle that was fought all
the way to the Supreme Court.
Recently, however, posters heralding Janet Jackson 's
performances in Sweden featured a photograph showing her personal
homage to Mickey: an X-rated tattoo on her inner thigh, based on
O'Neill's drawing.
 Linda McCartney was working on vegetarian fish cakes when
she died, and a spokesman has announced that her vegetarian food
line will soon be expanded to include this delicacy. Sales of
vegetarian food in England are said to have soared in response to
her death.
Among Christo's projects were a fabric fence that rolled through
Marin and Sonoma counties, and hundreds of yellow umbrellas he
placed on a Southern California hillside.
 Academic note: Wavy Gravy 's Camp Winnarainbow for Adults which starts in Laytonville, Calif., on Saturday and runs through
the next Sunday has added whip-cracking to the curriculum, which
already includes unicycling, trapeze, improvisation and sleeping on
mats in tepees.
 Some years ago, cartoonist Dan O'Neill incurred the wrath of
Disney with a drawing of Mickey Mouse in an un-family-rated
position. The cartoonist lost a legal battle that was fought all
the way to the Supreme Court.
Recently, however, posters heralding Janet Jackson 's
performances in Sweden featured a photograph showing her personal
homage to Mickey: an X-rated tattoo on her inner thigh, based on
O'Neill's drawing.
 Linda McCartney was working on vegetarian fish cakes when
she died, and a spokesman has announced that her vegetarian food
line will soon be expanded to include this delicacy. Sales of
vegetarian food in England are said to have soared in response to
her death.
Well, not really. But I am the 50-something guy you may have
seen in summertime Manhattan going about his business clad in coat
and tie, dressy loafers (no socks) and what used to be called
Bermuda shorts. I didn't set out to become an ensign of men's
style, but one I seem to have become, recognized uptown and down by
my . . . knees. From Park Avenue to Broadway, Columbus Circle to
Wall Street, customarily blase New Yorkers see me coming and step
aside, not quite sure whether to shun me as a trampler of the
proprieties or salute me as a breeze of sensibility.
The answer was, and is, Not before Memorial Day. There are
standards. And to be perfectly honest about it, when the shorts go
on, the pants go off for the duration, and Memorial Day has proved
a fairly safe cutoff date. There are no standards at the end of the
cycle, however. The pants come back when it seems foolish still to
be in shorts (last year, on Sept. 26).
Not everyone, however, is quite so mellow. A couple of years
ago, I was invited to lunch with friends at the Yale Club. I wore
an appropriately blue-and-white seersucker suit, truncated. We met
in the second-floor lounge for drinks before proceeding to the
21st-floor terrace. But I didn't get to proceed. When the waiter
came to take a second drink order, he suggested in a tone brooking
no dissent that I would be happier having another club soda and a
fillet of whatever elsewhere. A Member has complained, sir.
What I wanted to say to that hidebound Member was that shorts,
or something approximating them, have been with us longer than
trousers. That empires have been won, defended and lost in them.
And that in many civilized places Bermuda, naturally, which isn't
even tropical, as well as innumerable other hot-weather dens of
respectability short pants are de rigueur business attire. But I
didn't. I left, walking out as arrogantly as possible.
That I have become a symbol of sartorial liberation says less
about me than about what wimps corporate men have turned into as
they don their dry-cleaned dungarees, Missoni sweaters and $200
sneakers to proclaim their dressed-down sang-froid. Men on the go
wear shorts firemen, mailmen, deliverymen, to name a few so why
not men on the sit? Once in a while I do encounter a fellow
coat-and-tied shorts wearer, but he usually ends up being a
salesman in SoHo rather than a captain, or even a noncom, of
industry. When it comes to having the power of their convictions
about easygoing clothes, businessmen apparently have neither power
nor convictions.
(Fashionwise, which isn't really the point but certainly is a
point, I like pleated cotton shorts in solid colors, with a seven-
or eight-inch inseam. Since mine is a weather-driven conceit, I
don't wear socks. Knee socks may look great in Bermuda, but for my
glands, wrapping the lower legs in anything defeats the purpose.
And esthetically speaking, the sight of shorts anchored in dark
ankle-length socks is enough to make me think about putting long
pants back on.)
Now that I've been wearing shorts long enough to be cranky about
those who don't and won't, and long enough to have been evicted
from the Yale Club, consider this a call to knees, an invitation to
join me in casting aside the legs of convention.
WASHINGTON The chairman of a House immigration panel said
Friday he would hold a hearing next month into the shooting death
of a young Texan by a Marine anti-drug patrol.
The shooting near the Rio Grande River last year prompted the
Defense Department to temporarily suspend the use of soldiers in
counter-narcotics surveillance operations along the U.S.-Mexico
border.
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, voiced frustration at the slow
response from the Justice and Defense departments on his requests
for information and documents about the death on May 20, 1997, of
Esequiel Hernandez, 18.
Smith wants transcripts of radio conversations among the
Marines, Border Patrol and other federal agencies when the four-man
patrol was given the order to shoot Hernandez. The Marines were
working in conjunction with the Border Patrol at the time of the
shooting.
Smith also is asking for records on training and supervision of
armed military patrols that served on anti-drug patrols along the
border.
State and federal grand juries that investigated the shooting
did not indict Marine Cpl. Clemente Banuelos, who admitted to
shooting Hernandez with an M-16 rifle after the civilian fired his
.22-caliber rifle at the four camouflaged Marines.
The shooting occurred at dusk, several miles from the Rio Grande
and near the border town of Redford, in a rugged border corridor
that attracts smugglers. Hernandez was herding his family's goats
at the time of the shooting, and family members have said he
normally carried a gun for protection.
The immigration subcommittee has subpoenaed documents presented
to the grand juries, as well as policy directives and position
statements from the Justice and Defense departments.
The congressman agreed to push back a Friday deadline for the
information from the Defense Department after Navy Secretary John
Dalton pledged full cooperation with the lawmaker's investigation.
Smith also accused the Justice Department of failing to produce
documents sought by the committee for months.
The Fort Worth Star-Telegram plans to move the following stories
for clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs of Saturday, June
6, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please call Lou
Hudson, Paul Wagner or Jim Peipert on the Star-Telegram's
National/Foreign Desk at (817) 390-7785. 
Investors who skip blithely from fund to fund, beware. More
funds are imposing redemption fees to trip up those who are fleet
of foot, fund experts say, and the fees are carrying nastier
stings.
Unlike back-end loads, or deferred sales charges typically
used to pay brokers redemption fees are returned to the fund's
asset base. They average 1 percent of the assets being redeemed and
are intended to discourage short-term players, like market timers
or those who simply change their minds a lot.
The fees, however, are usually not imposed for long. According
to Lipper Analytical Services, a research firm based in Summit,
N.J., the average redemption fee is in effect for about seven
months from the date of purchase. After that, investors can get out
without paying a toll.
Among the fund companies that are upping the redemption ante is
Fidelity Investments, the industry giant. A number of Fidelity
funds already carry redemption fees of up to 1.5 percent, typically
for redemptions within 90 days of purchase. But the new Fidelity
Small Cap Stock fund charges 3 percent and the fee is levied if
an investor skips within the first three years.
Does that sound like a long time to stick around? Consider the
five-year tenure required by tax-managed funds from the Vanguard
Group, which impose a redemption fee that slides from 2 percent to
1 percent.
Some of the rules are a mite tricky. At Bridgeway Capital
Management, both Bridgeway Ultra-Large 35 Index and Bridgeway
Ultra-Small Index come with permanent redemption fees, but with a
twist: The 2 percent toll will be assessed, at the fund's
discretion, only if an investor sells after the Standard Poor's
500-stock index has fallen by 5 percent in the five previous
trading days.
Fickle investors take note: One way or another you're going to
pay to play.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip For three months, Palestinian President
Yasser Arafat has watched warily while a political rival, Sheikh
Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of the militant Hamas movement,
has been received almost like a head of state by nearly a dozen
Muslim countries.
Tired of months without progress in peace talks with Israel, the
Islamic nations are signaling their dissatisfaction with the
hard-line policies of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by
boosting the prestige of the Palestinian militant in a way that
plays to their own grumbling opposition.
Most analysts agree that the warm reception Yassin has received
represents a fresh challenge to Arafat's rule. And the timing
couldn't be worse for the Palestinian leader's sagging popularity.
Months of stalled peace negotiations and a stagnant economy have
helped tug Arafat's approval rating down to less than 50 percent.
Adding to these difficulties, Yassin, a 61-year-old paraplegic
who is nearly blind and suffers from lung ailments, has been
touring hard-line Arab states such as Syria and Iran and moderate
states such as Saudi Arabia with a message likely to rankle Arafat
even more: No peace with Israel.
The danger to Arafat has not been lost on the government he
heads, the Palestinian Authority. Officials in Gaza try to downplay
the threat Yassin's whirlwind tour poses to Arafat's rule by
spinning the high-profile visits as a warning to Netnayahu.
But in a move that reflected Arafat's concern, the Palestinian
government asked Jordan, home to about 3 million Palestinians, not
to grant Yassin entry. So far, Jordan, Lebanon and South Africa
have refused to allow the sheikh an entry visa, according to a
Hamas leader in Gaza.
Yassin's trip began with a low-key request by the sheikh to
visit Egypt for medical treatment. In April, Israel gave him
permission to leave Gaza on a diplomatic passport issued by the
Palestinian Authority, and Hamas leaders expect Israel to allow him
to return to Gaza without incident. Israeli security services have
been debating whether or not to let him return.
From Egypt, Yassin went to Saudi Arabia to attend the annual
pilgrimage to Mecca, which every Muslim is obligated to make at
least once in his or her lifetime. But something unusual occurred.
When the Hamas leader arrived in Saudi Arabia, its leaders, King
Fahd, and Prince Abdallah, asked to see him. Within weeks, Qatar,
the United Arab Emirates, Iran and Yemen also extended invitations.
In each country, Yassin was received by kings, princes and
presidents.
Next, the sheikh traveled to Kuwait, Syria and the Sudan, whose
Islamic president, Mazjoub Khalifa, suggested setting up a charity
to aid the Palestinians. Hamas officials say they were even trying
to set up a meeting between Yassin and Saddam Hussein in Iraq. From
there, the Hamas leader may go to Pakistan, the first Islamic
nation to detonate a nuclear device, and Malaysia, the most
populous Islamic country in the world.
Yassin's tour comes as relations between the Palestinian
Authority and Hamas remain at their lowest level since last fall,
when the Hamas leader was let out of an Israeli prison, part of a
swap with Jordan for captured Israeli intelligence agents who had
botched an attempt to assassinate a Hamas official in Amman.
Arafat, apparently concerned that Hamas would take revenge by
setting off another suicide bomb and blow away his chance to wrest
territory from Netanyahu, found evidence implicating another Hamas
militant in Sharif's death. Then Arafat silenced the Hamas leaders
who claimed otherwise by throwing them all into jail.
But the attention on Yassin has boosted Hamas' standing, both at
home and abroad. Usually supported by no more than 10 percent of
the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, the most recent poll
taken by a Jerusalem-based Palestinian think tank shows that about
one of every four Palestinians now sympathizes with Hamas.
Some of the countries that received Yassin were likely motivated
by animosity toward Arafat. There is little good will from Syrian
President Hafez Assad toward the Palestinian leader. And Kuwait's
princes still have not forgiven Arafat for supporting Iraq during
the Persian Gulf War.
But the motivation of other states that receive Yassin is far
more complex. Most of the leaders who welcomed Yassin are battling
Islamic fundamentalist opposition groups. The strategy in these
countries has been to appease and thereby contain them. One theory
is that they are doing the same with Hamas.
For Hamas to play along may signal the beginning of the
organization's slow transformation from a militant movement
responsible for suicide bombings to an open political party, said
Khatib.
Support for Hamas is usually an accurate barometer for
Palestinian support for the peace process. When negotiations go
well, support for Hamas plummets. Conversely, when negotiations
fail, as they have done for 15 months, support for Hamas increases.
But this time, Hamas is reading both the newfound support in the
Palestinian street, and the grand welcomes Yassin has received
abroad, as approval for its strategy of violent resistance rather
than a measure of popular displeasure with the peace process.
NEW YORK It's midnight on a Saturday and a battle is on in the
Bronx. Tammy Keo, 12, is squared against Marcos Oquendo, 19.
Despite the David-and-Goliath mismatch Tammy, known as Lady Love
Bug, stands 4 foot 10, and Oquendo, known as 2 Sweet, is 6 foot 2 there's no turning back.
The young challenger stuffs her ponytails under a knitted cap
and reties the fat shoelaces of her Adidas sneakers. Her opponent
tucks his sleeveless jersey into his boxers. Both are ready for the
three-minute round before 300 spectators at the Hunt's Point
Community Center. In this arena, skill isn't determined by one's
left hook or right jab. The rules are as they've always been: May
the fanciest footwork win.
Such scenes were common 15 years ago, when no street corner or
subway platform was safe from bandanna-wearing breakdancers and
their behemoth boom boxes. The pulsating street theater indigenous
to New York and its spoken accompaniment rap were at the
forefront of the cultural flowering called hip-hop. Hollywood made
movies about breakdancing, dancers performed at the White House and
the sky seemed the limit.
Breakdancing, along with tagging (graffiti writing), emceeing
and deejaying the pillars of hip-hop culture grew into a way of
life.
The retro-'80s vibe that is behind breakdancing's return in the
inner city can be traced back in part to a nostalgia for a more
innocent period of hip-hop. There is a backlash against the
excessive violence and materialism that has been extolled by
gangsta rap for the last decade, culminating in the murders of
Tupak Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. B-boys and B-girls say that their
dance style represents a return to times when people could compete
and live to tell about it.
SAN FRANCISCO Some habits are hard to break. From the late
1960s to the early 1990s, the Grateful Dead were on the road almost
every year, playing down-home improvisational rock for twirling,
tie-dyed Dead Heads.
Three years after the death of Jerry Garcia, his fellow members
of the Grateful Dead are back together as the core of a new band,
the Other Ones, that sets out to resurrect and extend the Dead's
legacy.
The band made a triumphant hometown debut in San Francisco on
Thursday night at the Warfield Theater for a sold-out house of
2,400 people who arrived with loyal but guarded expectations and
left the concert jubilant.
The Other Ones include Hart, Bob Weir on guitar and Phil Lesh on
bass, Dead members since the 1960s, and Bruce Hornsby on keyboards,
who toured with the Dead in the 1990s. Mark Karan and Steve Kimock
on guitars, Dave Ellis on saxophones and John Molo on drums
complete the new band. Drummer Bill Kreutzmann, the other surviving
founder of the Dead, has retired.
This summer, the new band is to headline the third Furthur
Festival, an annual package tour of Dead-related bands. It goes to
the Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., on June 29
and the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y., on June 30. Hart said
the Other Ones had made no plans beyond the summer.
For their debut, the Other Ones had two things that the Grateful
Dead did not: nearly a month of daily rehearsals (including a
change of guitarist in the last week) and a set list that was
chosen before the band appeared onstage. But like the Dead, the
Other Ones rely on the chemistry of the moment.
The Dead brought the security of American roots music country,
blues, Appalachian music, rhythm-and-blues, even touches of Latin
rhythm to psychedelic wanderings; they made good-timey excursions
out of songs haunted by death and uncertainty. The two sets by the
Other Ones became both a reminder of what the Dead accomplished and
a glimpse of new prospects.
In more than three hours of music, the Other Ones celebrated the
Dead with the Dead's own limber, open-ended curiosity, bolstered by
the kind of thorough practice and rejuvenated energy that the
latter-day Dead had lost.
NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,
please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGit
holding catdgory. If you need assistance in setting this up, please
call IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.
BONN, Germany With rescue efforts virtually ended after
Germany's worst rail crash in more than 50 years, officials said
Friday that the death toll stood at 96. The accident was so
gruesome that most of the bodies were mutilated beyond
identification.
The train, Inter-City-Express 884, slammed into a
steel-reinforced concrete overpass at 125 mph on Wednesday in the
northern German town of Eschede. Rescue officials said Friday that
there was an increasing belief among investigators that a broken
wheel flung the train from the tracks as it passed over a switch
just before it hit the road overpass.
On Wednesday investigators found damage to the tracks about
three and a half miles south of the crash, suggesting that the
wheel broke at that point.
Rescue officials in Eschede said Friday that only 19 of the dead
had been formally identified. Even traditional methods of
identification, like using dental records, were proving impossible
because of extensive head injuries. Police say they want to spare
relatives from seeing the mangled bodies until authorities are sure
of their identities.
German authorities withdrew 60 of the 104 high-speed
Inter-City-Express trains from service Thursday so that they could
be inspected for fatigue in their undercarriages. Ten of them
returned to service Friday.
Some people in Hamburg the scheduled destination of Inter-City
884 from Munich and in Hanover, 35 miles south of the wreck,
placed flowers next to the tracks.
Veit Steinle, a spokesman for the Transport Ministry in Bonn,
said that investigators had discovered debris along the track
before the overpass and that there was evidence that the train had
finally swayed out of control some 300 yards before Eschede.
But officials said it could take weeks or months before an
official inquiry reported on the cause of the crash.
Political gyrations, economic turmoil, crashing stock markets,
embattled currency, collapsing tax revenue. In such troubled times,
Russia might be forgiven for leaning hard on the one thing it can
count on: oil and natural-gas exports, paid for in dollars. Some
investors worry that a sorely pressed government might flood the
already glutted world oil market and depress prices further.
Far from ramping up production, the Russian oil industry has had
to cut output by about 60,000 barrels a day because low prices about $11 a barrel for Russian exports, down from $18 a year ago and high production costs have made some wells uneconomical, Ms.
Hittle said.
Russia is the world's third-largest oil producer, after Saudi
Arabia and Venezuela, with a big domestic industry and vast
reserves, and it has a long history of using its output for its own
political and economic purposes, ignoring the efforts of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries of which it is not
a member to manage world supplies.
Now, though, Russia's ability to squeeze more income from oil
depends on whether OPEC can agree to raise prices by cutting
production at its next meeting, later this month in Vienna,
Austria. Russia plans to send a representative to the meeting, and
is considering joining OPEC.
In advance of the meeting, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela agreed on
Thursday with Mexico, which is not a member, to cut their
production by 450,000 barrels a day. Those three nations led a
coalition that managed to win agreement for production cuts last
March, temporarily buoying prices.
Instead, to raise cash, the government has sought to privatize
some of the industry. But prices for domestic oil companies proved
just as disappointing as the price of oil. The government tried to
get $2.1 billion for RAO Rosneft, a huge energy company, but found
no interested buyers; it recently had to drop the asking price to
$1.6 billion to attract bids.
Russian oil-industry executives, who were flexing political
muscles at home and in neighboring nations a year or two ago when
oil fetched $18 to $20 a barrel, are on the defensive, pleading for
government help with tax cuts and lower pipeline fees.
They are in a bind. Antiquated equipment at the wellhead makes
trimming production a one-way proposition at many wells; once they
are shut down, it would be very expensive to restart them. But at
current oil prices, many of the same wells lose money on every
barrel.
Unless OPEC and other major producers can agree to make another
production cut, like one agreed upon in March, many analysts say
oil prices may fall further, adding to the burdens of the economy.
Russia exports about 25 percent of its output of about 6.2
million barrels a day, yielding 45 percent of the country's
foreign-currency income. Production peaked in 1988, when most
Eastern European countries were still captive customers, at 11.4
million barrels a day, but in the collapse of communism the next
year, output fell by nearly half.
Domestic energy prices in Russia are still somewhat shielded
from world market trends, so the Russian oil industry has begun
looking more toward domestic markets to help ride out the downturn.
But ruble sales don't help refill government coffers with hard
currency.
Robert Ebel, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a research group in Washington, said Russian
production increased slightly last year, mostly because of
increasing investment by Western oil companies. But a lack of legal
guarantees for foreigners has restricted the amounts that Western
companies have been willing to commit to expand production further.
NEW YORK Nothing in the classical music world offers as much
room for parody as opera. The repertory itself, packed as it is
with implausible plots and peculiar characters, offers ample
material, and there is even more to skewer in the practical side of
the business, where the grandiose egos of divas, directors and
conductors to say nothing of the fervent partisanship of their
fans can be mistaken for parody by dispassionate outsiders.
Turning these quirks into true comedy demands a deep knowledge
and a sincere love of the form as well as a high level of
musicianship and vocal agility. One can only parody great
performers, after all, if one can approximate their strengths while
exaggerating their weaknesses. The Gran Scena Opera Company a
troupe of male singers who dress and act as divas, sing in falsetto
and perform under comic stage names (Gabriella
Tonnoziti-Casseruola, for example) has made a specialty of this
specialized brand of comedy since 1981.
The group performed at Alice Tully Hall on Thursday evening for
an audience that was enthusiastic enough to make an actual diva
jealous.
Centennials usually call for a lot of clanking celebration, a
period souvenir or two and perhaps some minor historical
revisionism. The 1898 observation, now under way in Spain, Cuba,
the Philippines and the United States, is a tough one. So much was
set in motion that it is difficult to contemplate how we got from
there to here.
Four months of fighting dispatched the remnants of a Spanish
empire dating to the landing of Columbus and gave rise to an
American empire and century, with entanglements, entitlements and
expectations yet to be fully sorted out.
The consensus of historians, whether second-guessers or those in
the academic mainstream, is that 1898 marked the death of one age
and the start of another.
Consider the United States at the start of that year. Geronimo
had surrendered, but his haunts of New Mexico and Arizona were
still territories and considered foreign land to many on the East
Coast. Americans commuted to work by bicycle. Though the shift from
rural to urban was well under way, the United States still thought
of itself as a nation of farmers and of Anglo-Saxons. Foreign wars
were for Europeans, the detested monarchs of the Old World.
The city strutted its new muscle. In 1898, by incorporating the
outer boroughs, New York City grew from 39 square miles to 320,
becoming the second biggest metropolis in the world, with a
population of 3.4 million. Only London was bigger.
At the same time, the United States had learned to shop, passing
Britain as the world's leading consumer society. With wealth,
unparalleled population growth, physical space and technology, all
it lacked was a place in the world.
That would be taken care of in part by the mysterious explosion
of the battleship Maine in Havana harbor on the evening of Feb. 15,
1898, which killed 266 American servicemen. The ship was in Cuba
ostensibly to protect American interests while rebels tried to
remove the hand of Spain from the island. These rebels had been
depicted at first as modern-day Jeffersons and Washingtons.
From 1875 to 1905, Britain added 5 million square miles to its
empire; France added 3 million. The United States stretched from
one ocean to the other, but it was for the first time without a
frontier. European expansion, long condemned, provided an excuse
for emulation. How the United States could go from condemning
European colonialism to trying to rule the 7,100 islands of the
distant Philippines is one of the driving questions.
As for justification, one reason was purely military. A lot of
empires were prowling the oceans on the eve of the 20th century,
and the United States needed strategic position. But the
Spanish-American War also marked the start of a strain of American
foreign policy guided by crusader or missionary impulses.
The war was remarkably short. A superior Navy smashed the
Spanish fleet in Manila Bay and off Santiago, Cuba. The ground war
in Cuba made Theodore Roosevelt, all of 40 years old, the most
popular man in the United States. He had resigned as assistant
secretary of the Navy to lead a volunteer unit, the Rough Riders,
who were certainly rough but did very little riding in Cuba. Their
battles were sharp, vicious crawls through jungle terrain in
killing heat.
Roosevelt, by nearly all accounts, had an extraordinary sense of
his infallibility. Spanish bullets were chin music to him. Two
years later he was president, after the assassination of McKinley
at the start of his second term.
Under the terms of surrender, the United States took control of
Cuba, Puerto Rico and Guam and paid Spain $20 million for the
Philippines. The latter exchange completed the remarkable
acquisition of big pieces of the Spanish empire: 50 years earlier,
for $15 million, America had gained a third of Mexico after a brief
war.
The surrender may have been hard on Spanish national
self-esteem, but it was also a positive turning point for a country
that had been in steep political decline. By a predominant view in
Spain, the country flourished artistically and intellectually
because it was finally free of the corrupting influences of its
empire.
The United States held on to Cuba for four years and the
Philippines for nearly half a century, and has never relinquished
Guam or Puerto Rico. The Maine may be forgotten, but the waves from
that sinking have yet to flatten out. The American century started
with seven world powers and ends with one superpower. Whoever said
history does not turn on accidents?
AUSTIN, Texas With grand plans for the fall election in mind,
state Republican stalwarts gather in Fort Worth this week to kick
off what they hope will be a historic year in Texas politics.
What once was unthinkable is now within reach for the Texas GOP:
a sweep of statewide elected offices, gaining control of the Texas
House for the first time in more than 120 years and keeping its
slim majority in the Texas Senate.
A key factor to winning is the popular and well-funded Gov.
George W. Bush, who is way ahead of Democratic gubernatorial
candidate Garry Mauro in the polls. Many Republicans are hoping
Bush will win big and help push other candidates into office.
Those goals, if achieved, would be historic for the GOP in
Texas, which for decades has been a Democratic stronghold.
Republicans hope to avoid the controversy that overshadowed the
1996 convention in San Antonio, when some delegates tried to bar
U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison from being a delegate to the
national convention because they didn't believe her anti-abortion
stand was strong enough.
But when some 13,000 people assemble in one place, the potential
for internal squabbles exists. The convention's main sessions are
on Friday and Saturday, though committee meetings begin Tuesday.
Members of the Log Cabin Republicans of Texas, a gay group, have
complained that, again, they had been denied the chance to have a
booth at the event.
During the past decade, social conservatives have gained control
of the party in Texas. But they didn't fare well in the spring
primaries when several statewide candidates aligned with the
Christian right lost their races.
Atwood and Glickman flew Thursday over the blazes in Mexico's
Chiapas state that will probably not be fully extinguished until
the country receives heavy rainfall.
President Clinton dispatched Atwood and Glickman to Mexico this
week to observe the fires, which have sent smoke wafting into Texas
and as far north as Wisconsin. About $8 million worth in U.S. aid
was sent to Mexico after Texas senators began to complain about
severe air pollution in Texas caused by the fires beginning in
mid-May.
Forty-one American firefighters, five U.S. helicopters and
thousands of pieces of U.S. firefighting equipment began to arrive
in Mexico on May 25.
Mexican environmentalists have criticized their government for
not being prepared to deal with forest fires during a year of
drought, and for failing to ask for international help sooner.
While the United States and Mexico have a relationship dating
back 30 years that includes training of firefighters, the countries
do not have a plan for mutual aid in emergencies.
He said the fires will probably be discussed at a binational
meeting between President Clinton and Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo next week in New York.
Officials may announce then how the United States intends to
help Mexico reforest burned areas. Especially hard-hit is the
Chimalapas reserve, a stop for many migratory birds for the United
States and home to hundreds of the world's most endangered plants.
He warned that continued cooperation is needed to prepare for
more disasters attributed to El Nino. Next year, Atwood said, the
weather phenomenon could present reverse weather patterns, causing
flooding in Mexico and other regions hit by drought and fire this
year.
Glickman defended Mexico's attempts to control its forest fires,
which began last January and have become the worst in more than
half a century.
Atwood said an assessment of this year's forest-fire crisis
would also include the experience of Central American countries,
where U.S. aid was also sent to help fight similar blazes.
Also up for review, the two U.S. officials said, are various
countries' attempts to reduce the practice of slash-and-burn
agriculture.
In Mexico, government officials blamed the traditional practice
for sparking many of this year's forest fires. Peasant groups in
Mexico reacted angrily to the charges, arguing that many farmers
are so poor they have little alternative to the practice.
Normally, burning land in preparation for planting is controlled
by farmers, who rely on spring rains to help extinguish flames.
This year, however, many of the fires raged out of control because
of the extreme heat and lack of rain.
Glickman, who met with Mexico's Minister of Agriculture while
here, agreed that poverty is the main culprit for slash-and-burn
farming that is devouring forests and causing fires that pollute
air elsewhere around the globe.
He's won five NBA championship rings. He's silenced critics who
said his movie theaters in Atlanta, Houston and Los Angeles would
bomb. He's even beaten oddsmakers predicting he'd be dead by now,
nearly seven years after announcing he has the virus that causes
AIDS.
Brewer says no subject will be off-limits and that Johnson
expects questions about the sexual recklessness that almost cost
him his career and his life.
Johnson, however, won't be grilling his opening week guests,
which include Harrison Ford and Peta Wilson on Tuesday; Arsenio
Hall, Gloria Estefan and Michael Douglas on Wednesday; Christine
Lahti and Kenny G on Thursday; and Gillian Anderson and Johnson's
former basketball coach, Pat Riley, on Friday.
A legendary stickler for preparation when he was playing
basketball, Johnson has also spent months doing rehearsal shows,
and taking lessons from a voice and interviewing coach.
Johnson is also getting pointers from Jay Leno, whom his show
competes against in several key markets, and Hall, a buddy and
former gabmaster.
Audrey Steele, senior vice-president for Zenith Media, a New
York consulting firm, was impressed by Johnson during a
presentation he made to promote the show to advertisers. But she
has her doubts the show will last beyond its initial 13-week run.
Whether the show is an air ball or a swish will be up to the man
whose been pulling surprises out of his trick bag for years.
Today he is remarkably robust by any definition of good health,
thanks to drugs that have been so successful that they have reduced
the virus to levels that cannot be detected. His wife and three
children are healthy.
-- HIS HEALTH: While by no means cured, he owes the appearance
of remarkable health to a Spartan lifestyle and modern medicine.
Like many AIDS patients on these new medications, he takes a
combination of three drugs, one a protease inhibitor.Side effects
can include nausea, vomiting, headaches, backaches or
gastrointestinal problems. The drugs are expensive, costing $12,000
to $15,000 a year.
-- HIS MOVIE THEATERS: He's a partner in a joint venture with
Sony Theaters in Los Angeles, Houston and Atlanta, with expansion
plans for nine more cities. In Atlanta, where he already has one
multiplex theater at Greenbriar Mall, the financing plans for a
second one, in south DeKalb County, drew criticism because of
concerns that public money would be used. But the plan, which was
approved by the DeKalb County Commission and will be implemented
through the DeKalb County Development Authority, provides financing
and interest rate incentives and uses funds from private investors.
-- OTHER BUSINESS INTERESTS: Johnson recently became Starbucks'
first joint-venture partner, with a location in Los Angeles. He has
a joint venture with TGI Friday's, with plans to open restaurants
near his theaters. He also has formed California Urban Investment
Partners with the California Public Employees' Retirement System,
investing in commercial real estate. And he represents American
Express and Adolph Coors in TV ads. Recently, he joined Janet
Jackson and record industry executive Jheryl Busby in buying a
majority stake in Founders National Bank, California's only African
American-owned bank.
SAN FRANCISCO American League president Gene Budig will take a
break from his usual regimen of signing baseballs and getting into
ballparks for free to hand out enormous suspensions, fines and
other spankings to both the Kansas City Royals and Anaheim Angels
for their beanball war.
In case you missed it, the teams met the other night and got
into a glorious old-timey cat fight, the kind they used to have in
the game's golden era, when men were men and had big knots on their
heads from strategically aimed fastballs.
The spark was Kansas City pitcher Jim Pittsley's drilling
Anaheim's Phil Nevin in the seventh inning, which led to Anaheim's
Rich DeLucia hitting Kansas City's Dean Palmer in the eighth, which
led to Anaheim's Darin Erstad taking one in the thigh from Kansas
City's Scott Service in the ninth, which led to Kansas City's Jose
Offerman being hit by Anaheim's Mike Holtz, which led to a second
bench-emptying brawl in which Kansas City's Felix Martinez
sucker-punched Anaheim's Frank Bolick and then ran from his
retribution.
It was great theater no matter how you examined it five
beanballs, 12 ejections, and one career essentially self-immolated.
Martinez, who had already made a name for himself by kicking
Minnesota's Otis Nixon in the face back in April and breaking his
jaw, became the first major-leaguer since the old Giant pitcher
Ruben Gomez to perform the hit-and-run.
In that one, Gomez hit Milwaukee's Joe Adcock with a pitch, and
when Adcock, who was built like the box the United Nations building
came in, went after him, Gomez ran in terror. He was never the
same.
Martinez, after sucker-punching Bolick, a fairly inoffensive
backup infielder, saw several Angels chasing him and fled. Worse
yet, he fled unsuccessfully, being chased down and slugged by
pitcher Jack McDowell, who is on the disabled list.
Martinez's performance was so inspiring that his manager, Tony
Muser, dragged him off the field personally, and had him sent to
Triple-A Omaha on the next three-stop, two plane-change he could
book.
Baseball could have used a really good feud among two of its
lesser-lit teams, just to help goose a few crowds. Better to have
the miscreants on tour than on house arrest. Everyone likes to see
a villain, just on the off-chance he might perform some new
villainy. After all, why should the 12,020 who watched the
Angels-Royals brawls have all the fun?
This is a lesson professional wrestling learned years ago keep
the bad guys in plain sight. Do you think Strangler Lewis, or
Gorgeous George, or Nick Bockwinkel, or Hulk Hogan would have
become household words and living, breathing cash machines if they
were getting suspended every time they hit some guy with a chair, a
suitcase, a ring bell, or another fan?
Of course not. They'd go from city to city, finding some
fabulous new way to circumvent the rules of the sport just to keep
the customers interested, and more important, coming back. Today's
turnbuckle rope is tomorrow's metal suitcase, and the day after
that a forklift.
Baseball's deepest thinkers, though, believe that villainy
should be dealt with administratively rather than by the rules of
optometry (an eye for an eye, etc.), which is why the Royals and
Angels are about to feel the icy hand of Uncle Gene.
He is expected to come down hard on Martinez, who is safely
ensconced out of harm's way in eastern Nebraska, and on Muser and
Anaheim manager Terry Collins, who presumably kept the war at a
boil by sending the boys out to exchange fastballs to the soft
spots. Since neither of them play, Budig could throw the booklet at
them, look tough while impacting nothing.
This is a mistake, and a serious one. Would it not be better to
hype the rematch in mid-July until the good people of Orange County
are at full froth, and then bring out both teams in spangles,
flowing robes, and ring announcers cranked up on Sudafed and
creatine?
The proper course seems obvious. In these turbulent times,
dignity gets you nothing; if it still had value, there wouldn't be
the X Games, or hoop earrings on power forwards.
But no, Vice Admiral Budig will deal with the scofflaws himself,
with a justice as swift as it is sure. Men will be punished and
taught a lesson that will last with them for, uh, let's be
conservative and say 20 minutes.
OK, folks, here it comes the vehicle you've been waiting for
since Dodge introduced the new Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out the
new F-150 in 1996.
General Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, it
was worth the wait.
Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling into
showrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle since
the current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988.
For 1999, the truck takes the name Silverado, which in the past
was the designation for an uplevel trim package on the Chevy
pickups.
The GMC version, which will show up in the fall, has a new name,
too: the Sierra.
To answer the big question first: No, there are no radical
styling changes, such as those on the Ram and F-150.
These trucks look different, make no mistake about that. But
they still look like General Motors full-size pickups; they're just
a bit rounder and have some updated trim, such as new headlights,
grilles and bumpers.
Unlike the Ram and F-150, the big differences aren't in style,
they're in substance. These trucks are stronger, faster, bigger,
roomier, and more high-tech than before and they outclass the
competition in all of those areas.
Take the back seat in the extended-cab models. It's a real seat,
with enough leg and knee room even for big folks. And the third
door, which comes on the passenger side, is larger than before (and
larger than those in the Dodge and Ford), which makes it easier to
get in and out.
The new GM pickups' V-8 engines are more powerful than the
competitions', too, with no penalty in fuel economy. In fact, gas
mileage exceeds that of the Ram and matches or exceeds that of the
F-150 in almost all cases.
Braking is vastly improved over the past C/K model and the
competition. The GM trucks stop 30 to 50 feet sooner than the
current models from 80 mph, thanks to large, four-wheel disc brakes
and a standard, four-wheel antilock system an exclusive feature
for this vehicle class.
The body is stronger than before, cutting down significantly on
squeaks and rattles, and providing better occupant protection. The
frame is 23 percent stiffer than that of the current model,
creating a strong foundation, and the frame is welded together,
rather than riveted, to add to that strength.
Reliability should be dramatically improved, too. The electrical
wiring, for instance, has five splices down from 92 in the
current model. Ford's F-150 has 118 wiring splices places where
something can go wrong.
There are some other great features about the new Chevy and GMC
trucks, too. They come with a coolant-loss protection system that
allows them to be driven up to 50 miles at 55 miles per hour with
no coolant in the radiator.
Battery rundown protection is built in: It shuts down the
electrical accessories if any are inadvertently left on after the
engine has been turned off.
Even the windows have been enlarged for greater visibility.
Brighter headlights and backup lights add to the visibility, and
the lights come on automatically when needed.
Five engines are available on the Silverado and Sierra, a V-6
and four V-8s, including a turbodiesel. Here are the choices:
Body and drive combinations are numerous: There are regular and
extended-cab models in short- and long-bed versions, both with the
standard bed and the step-side bed and in two- or four-wheel
drive. They also come with varying suspensions, from a smooth
on-road configuration to a tough off-road one.
The Chevy trucks come in three trim levels: base, midlevel LS
and uplevel LT. Leather seats are available in Chevy and GMC
models, as are front bucket seats.
I've driven most of the new trucks, in both the GMC and Chevy
versions, including the four-wheel-drive models with the sporty
Z-71 off-road package. I put one of those to the test on a rugged
dirt road from Oracle, Ariz., to the top of Mount Lemmon, near
Tucson, and found the optional AutoTrac automatic four-wheel-drive
system to be convenient for on- and off-road use. The system
engages the front axle whenever the rear wheels begin to spin,
automatically transferring power up front.
These trucks also can be easily equipped for serious
trailer-towing. The Silverado's Z82 trailering package makes it the
most trailer-ready pickup on the market, Chevy says. It includes
plug-ins for trailer lights and electric brakes. And a tow/haul
mode in the automatic transmission changes the vehicle's shift
patterns to improve performance while towing. There's a button at
the end of the gearshift lever to switch the transmission into
towing mode.
The cabs are comfortable, and there's room for six adults with
three abreast in front and rear. Road and wind noise are
surprisingly light for a truck.
I couldn't find anything bad to say about these trucks, except
that there is no four-door extended-cab model planned. That could
drive some sales to the Dodge Ram Quad-Cab. Overall performance,
however, outshines that of the Ford and the Dodge, and only the
Ram's V-10 engine has more power than the best of the Gms.
Those of you concerned about the environment might like to know
that all of these trucks' plastic parts are recyclable. There are
44 pounds less scrap metal produced in the manufacture of each
truck that in the current model.
The Package: Full-size, two- or three-door,
two-to-six-passenger, V-6 or V-8 powered, rear- or four-wheel-drive
pickup truck, an all-new replacement for the C/K models; also
available in GMC version, called the Sierra.
Highlights: Stronger, bigger, more powerful and more high-tech
than before; significant but not outrageous restyling; built well;
most powerful V-8 engines in the class; roomier than the
competition; lots of standard safety features, including four-wheel
antilock brakes as standard equipment.
(G. Chambers Williams III writes on transportation issues for
the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. His mailing address is
Star-Telegram/Northeast, 3201 Airport Freeway, Suite 108, Bedford,
Texas 76021; his E-mail address is chambers(at)star-telegram.com.
Fax: (817) 685-3883. Check out his Wheelin' new-car review column
weekly on the Internet at
ww.netarrant.net/today/news/opinions/necol.htm. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com) 
Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDT
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
EDT Monday-Friday.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. EDT, is Tom Oder at 404-526-5456.
FEDERAL-DEBTS WASHINGTON A federal program that was supposed
to help collect debts that are owed the government has cost $40
million but brought in only $4 million, lawmakers complained at a
House oversight hearing Friday. Treasury officials offered few
assurances that they could make a big dent in the $52 billion in
non-tax related debts owed the U.S. (Malone, Cox News Service 500).
YORKTOWN-SURVIVORS WASHINGTON While ocean explorers from the
National Geographic Society were presenting a remote-control video
tour of the American aircraft carrier U.S.S. Yorktown this week,
survivors of the ship toured their memories of the bedlam of a
major sea battle. (Nesmith, Cox News Service 1000).
CHURCH WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. How has the Catholic Church's
response to priest misdeeds changed over the years and why? More
attempts are being made to come clean quickly. We'll include the
historic perspective, perhaps a box on several cases and how they
were handled; and mention the existence of the Maryland facility
for deviant priests. We also will include the numbers perspective it's still a rare case when priests do things like this. (Moffett,
Palm Beach Post) . (developing)
WASHINGTON Despite reforms of its debt-collection methods, the
federal government has a backlog of $52 billion in delinquent debts
that spurred bipartisan complaints Friday from members of Congress.
Under the new measure, Treasury has extended powers and
government-wide responsibility for collecting debts that are more
than 180 days tardy, including student loans, farm and business
loans, and federally backed home mortgages.
However, federal agencies have been slow to refer their debts to
Treasury until they have become so old as to be deemed
uncollectible.
The law also authorizes automatic deductions from federal
salaries or federal benefits for anyone who has a delinquent debt.
But little of this has taken effect, since it depends on developing
a new computer program. Treasury spent $5 million on such a
program, which proved defective and has now been abandoned.
Meanwhile, Dun Bradstreet Corp. sent an analysis to the
congressional oversight panel warning that unless the government
takes more care in granting loans, it will continue to make bad
debts.
Among the cases it cited was a company that defaulted on one
federal loan and then was given a second loan from the same agency,
which it also failed to pay. Later, a second federal agency awarded
the same company $200,000 in contracts.
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. Behind nearly every Medal of Honor is a
gripping story of the valor that earned this nation's highest
award. But in its own right, the Medal of Honor itself has a
storied past in its rise to what is now considered the world's most
prestigious decoration.
Receiving the medal is unique and it involves such intense
bravery in mortal combat, that two out of three recipients are
presented the medal posthumously.
In additional to representing individualism and a person's
ability to bravely rise above his colleagues, the Medal of Honor
depicts the struggle of good over evil, the promulgation of
democracy. It is the most exalted of all medals awarded for combat
in this country.
Yet, the medal did not always stand for so much. Indeed, when it
was first awarded to soldiers in the Civil War after its
establishment by Congress in 1862, the criteria for receiving the
Medal of Honor, along with its design, were tinkered with more than
once. At one point, the Medal of Honor was being awarded to
soldiers from the Civil War who had managed to keep the Union flag
from touching the ground during a battle.
Then in 1918, Congress created other medals for bravery, such as
the distinguished service cross, in order to set apart the
significance of the Medal of Honor, Gibran said.
Two years earlier, a board of five retired generals appointed by
the Secretary of War were assigned to investigate whether anyone
had been awarded the medal for something other than distinguished
conduct involving combat with an enemy.
In 1963, Congress again changed the criteria, now requiring that
the medal only be given in cases where there are at least two
witnesses, including an officer. That requirement, according to
some of the 163 living recipients who are in Saratoga Springs this
week for their society's annual convention, has prevented many
soldiers and sailors not receiving the medal even though their acts
of bravery warranted the award.
Williams, 74, earned his medal on Feb. 23, 1945, while serving
as a corporal in the Marines on Iwo Jima. Covered by only four
riflemen, Williams volunteered to take out Japanese machine gun
posts that were preventing his division from advancing. In one
instance during his four-hour ordeal, Williams mounted a pillbox
and inserted the nozzle of his flamethrower through an air vent to
kill the occupants who were firing on his unit.
Indeed, Williams said two of the four riflemen in his unit who
were providing protection for him as he advanced to take out enemy
pill boxes were killed that day.
Williams fits the profile of many of the living recipients,
according to Jeanne Kirk, head of the Naval Operations Awards and
Special Projects Branch.
Still, the acts of valor for which they have been awarded the
Medal of Honor, especially since World War II, will always be set
apart from even the most impressive acts of bravery that now fall
short of the medal's criteria.
SAN FRANCISCO A transsexual trying to join San Francisco's
police force has filed a $3 million discrimination claim with the
city after her appeal of a failed psychological test was turned
down.
Cristiana Rivas, 38, received a notice from the Police
Department early this week that said an independent psychiatrist
upheld the department's findings that she was unfit for service and
was therefore disqualified.
But Rivas is convinced she was discriminated against, citing her
own psychiatrists' favorable evaluation, an eight-year stint in the
National Guard and six years as a top-level employee with the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms as proof of her
qualifications.
Angry and frustrated, Rivas filed the $3 million claim with
Department of Human Resources' Equal Employment Opportunity
Division on Thursday and is working with her lawyer to put together
a lawsuit if her claim is denied.
The Police Department said it could not comment on why Rivas was
disqualified but spokesman Sherman Ackerson said the department
does not discriminate based on transgender issues.
But Rivas believes the department, or at least its
psychiatrists, are not comfortable dealing with transgender
applicants because they don't understand the issues. As an example,
Rivas said she was referred to as a cross-dresser during her final
evaluation with a city-affiliated psychiatrist who then asked her
to explain the difference between cross-dressing and transsexualism
when she objected.
Having fully expected to join the academy earlier this year,
Rivas quit her clerical job at ATF in January and is now on the
verge of having to sell her home because she has no income.
WASHINGTON Despite President Clinton's opposition to
physician-assisted suicide, the federal government will not stand
in the way of doctors who help terminally ill patients in Oregon
kill themselves, Attorney General Janet Reno said Friday.
Reno concluded after a nearly seven-month review that the
federal anti-drug statute does not bar doctors from prescribing
lethal medication for dying patients, as allowed under Oregon's
unique physician-assisted suicide law. Oregon's 1994 Death with
Dignity Act, which state voters upheld in a referendum last
November, permits doctors to prescribe lethal doses of medicine to
patients expected to live only six more months.
Two doctors must share the dire prognosis and agree that the
patient is mentally competent to ask for medical assistance in
committing suicide. Doctors, while allowed to prescribe lethal
medications, are prohibited under the law from giving deadly
injections.
At least three terminally ill patients in Oregon have committed
suicide with the help of a doctor since the law went into effect
Oct. 27. The Oregon Medical Association, prior to the department's
announcement, cautioned doctors in the state that prescribing
lethal doses might result in the federal Drug Enforcement
Administration revoking their licenses to prescribe medicine.
Reno, in refusing to hinder the Oregon law, rejected the
position of DEA Administrator Thomas Constantine, who in November
said physicians prescribing lethal doses would be in violation of
the federal Controlled Substances Act and would run the risk of
losing their prescription licenses.
The Oregon statute, enacted by referendum in 1994, survived a
challenge from opponents when state voters last November rejected
by a 3-2 margin a ballot initiative to repeal the law.
The Supreme Court last June ruled that terminally ill patients
do not have a constitutional right to have a doctor help them kill
themselves. But the justices, in upholding laws barring
physician-assisted suicide, said states may enact laws permitting
the controversial practice.
NEW YORK Mary Donohue, former prosecutor and judge, casts
herself as a compassionate and loyal sidekick, a lieutenant
governor who is willing to follow, not lead.
The former teacher who rose from being the head of Rensselaer
County's Junior League, to being elected district attorney and then
a state Supreme Court judge, resigned last week from the bench
after being tapped by Gov. George Pataki and GOP Chairman Bill
Powers to run for lieutenant governor.
In nominating Donohue, delegates seized upon her longtime
loyalty to the GOP, a trait party loyalists claim is lacking in the
current lieutenant governor Betsy McCaughey Ross, who also was
hand-picked by Pataki in 1994 and is now trying to bump him out of
office as a Democrat.
Donohue's acceptance remarks clearly had the flavor of a
runningmate, not a boss. She concentrated on the traditionally
female roles she has held: mother and teacher. And she made little
more than passing reference to her more recent careers as a
down-and-dirty criminal prosecutor and a tough-sentencing judge.
She went on to hail Pataki's efforts to cut crime in New York a claim that might ring hollow to her neighbors in Rensselaer
County, where violent crime has increased 33 percent since 1992
even as it has fallen statewide.
Pataki, who was asked to compare his current lieutenant governor
to Donohue, said her support of his agenda is an obvious plus.
Reissued recently as part of a series on business pioneers,
Reich's subject is the financial strategist who in the 1950s, '60s,
and '70s built Lazard Freres into a powerhouse among investment
banks. Fifteen years after it first appeared, it's still is an
exceptionally good read if you're interested in why Avis
Rent-a-Car turned out so well, for example, or in the Agnelli or
Englehard families. (The affable author, one of the best business
journalists in New York, died suddenly of pancreatic cancer in
March at 48.)
The legendary Meyer had a typical French marriage of a certain
sort: a discreet, devoted wife and an eye that wandered widely over
the years, from chanteuse Claude Alphande to Jacqueline Onassis.
Bella Meyer faded into the background; she survived her husband
(who died in 1979) by only six months.
Now the story has made a swell book. It is not as much about
game theory that Nash helped pioneer as about the ways that
mathematicians lead their lives, and about schizophrenia. The
person who holds it all together is a pretty young physicist named
Alicia Larde, who married Nash.
John Forbes Nash Jr. was born in 1928 in Bluefield, W. Va., a
rugged Appalachian coal town where his father was an electric
utility engineer. His Protestant parents were routinely demanding;
in 1945, his talent for mathematics already obvious, Nash went off
to the Carnegie Institute of Technology; by the middle of his
junior year he had been accepted for graduate study at Harvard,
Princeton, Chicago, and Michigan. He chose Princeton, then, as now,
the mathematical center of the universe.
Already there were signs of the otherworldliness that was to
plague him. As a teenager he danced with chairs, played unfunny
practical jokes, and made clear his attraction to other boys. As a
young adult, he careened back and forth between men and women. But
he also possessed unmistakable talent, and at Princeton it
blossomed for a time into genius.
It was in his thesis that Nash described the concept that bears
his name: Nash equilibrium, or the situation in which each player
has adopted the strategy that serves him best in consideration of
the strategies of all others. That carefully delineated bit of
mathematics, and a further contribution to the theory of games,
were sufficient to win him a series of distinguished appointments:
to think tank Rand Corp., the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study. He fathered a
son by his mistress, then married vivacious Alicia Larde, whom he
met in his course on advanced calculus for engineers.
Nash's antics increased in intensity and frequency. One winter
day in 1959, he walked into the common room at MIT and announced to
no one in particular that that day's New York Times contained a
message from a superior race in another galaxy that only he could
understand. Nasar's book chronicles the long bigger saga of the
paranoid schizophrenia that plagued Nash for the next 30 years,
that severed his links with virtually every one of the communities
that had sustained him: the schools, fellowships, departments,
friendships, children, and, in 1963, his marriage.
But Nash's wife continued to care for him even after they were
divorced. The bout of hospitalizations eventually ended. His mother
was dead, his sister unable to take him on. So in 1970, she offered
to let Nash live with her in Princeton, reasoning that a quiet life
on the edges of an academic community would be better for him than
any other regime.
Meanwhile, along a lengthy front, economics had begun moving
toward the austere mathematical structures that Nash and others had
erected in the late 1940s. The relevance of his early work to the
description of everyday dilemmas had become clear. Colleagues had
begun campaigning for Nash's election to the Econometric Society and, in Sweden, for a Nobel Prize.
At that point, reporter Nasar is at her best. She captures the
furious competitiveness that accompanies the award of major prizes
like the Fields Medal for mathematics, and penetrates the swirl of
rumor that had surrounded the award of the 1994 Nobel.
It turns out that conservatives in the Swedish Academy had
staged a last-minute attempt to prevent the award to Nash on the
very morning the announcement was to be made. Only narrowly did it
fail. In the end, Nash was well enough accept the prize and even
to resume working, in a limited way.
What is certain is that the worlds of business practice and
economic theory are coming closer together. And that the rules
governing human conduct are the same in each.
FPL officials said customers are pumping up air conditioning
units and putting a noticeable but manageable strain on their
demand.
Palm Beach County residents have been dealing daily with almost
record-high temperatures. With a 50-percent humidity level, the
heat index, which is how hot it feels when the humidity is
considered, stayed just on this side of 100 degrees.
The culprit is a high pressure system that parked itself over
Florida and has refused to move. The first hope for cooler
temperatures and a few raindrops will not come until the weekend.
The temperature hit the century mark for the third straight day
at Daytona Beach. The daily record high temperature at the National
Weather Service office in Melbourne was broken for the third day in
a row when it reached 99 degrees Thursday afternoon. The old record
of 94 degrees was set in 1980.
Wednesday, the state issued a health alert to advise residents
about possible health problems due to exteme temperatures around
the state.
On Wednesday, a 2-year-old girl died after a few minutes in her
family's sweltering minivan. Elizabeth Eunson's siblings and mother
were cooling off in a backyard pool Wednesday when she wandered out
to the van, climbed in through an open door and got stuck when the
door slid shut behind her, authorities said.
About 15 minutes passed before the family realized Elizabeth was
missing, said Detective Stacey Barrentine of the Pinellas County
Sheriff's Office. By the time they pulled her from the van, it was
too late.
Earlier this week, Carroll Vincent, 66, died of prolonged
exposure to the sun. He was seen sitting for more than 24 hours in
a chair outside his Fort Lauderdale home, but passersby realized
too late that he was unconscious. He was found Monday and died
Tuesday at a hospital.
And in Palm Beach County, a 21 month-old boy was brought to St.
Mary's Medical Center Thursday after becomming sluggish during a
swimming lesson at the BallenIsles Country Club in Palm Beach
Gardens.
The toddler, who was also running a fever, did not lose
consciousness and was treated and released on Thursday, according
to Palm Beach Gardens Fire Department Captain Richard Jimenez.
Local residents resorted to sundry methods, both ordinary and
unusual, in their efforts to beat the heat.
In Martin County residents filled their rapidly warming pools
with 300-pound blocks of ice. Ice distributors said they have been
racing to keep up with the sooner-than-expected peak summer demand.
Palm Beach County residents were slightly more prosaic in their
quest for cool. Hardware and home supply stores were doing a brisk
business in fans, air conditioners, and anything else that might
get a breeze going.
At a Home Depot in suburban Lake Worth, Assistant Manager Howie
Murphy said his store was churning anything that might reduce the
heat.
Wagner, the University of Texas' defending NCAA outdoor high
jump champion, concluded an injury-plagued junior season by failing
to clear the opening height at this year's meet. For Wagner, it was
a fitting end.
Wagner's training partner, Mark Boswell, also was disappointed.
The UT freshman had the nation's top leap entering the competition
(7 feet, 6 inches), but could clear only 7-0 1/2 recently to finish
tied for 10th.
Thornton felt better after the 1,600-meter relay prelims. The
Longhorns' quartet of Matt Ellis, David Aaron, Terrence Wakefield
and Calvin Williams ran the fifth-fastest qualifying time, 3
minutes, 6.10 seconds, to advance to the finals.
The Longhorns women, meanwhile, fared well in their bid for
their first outdoor team championship since 1986. The UT women
advanced nearly everyone they expected to except for Liz Diaz in
the 1,500, and got sparkling performances from Suziann Reid in the
400 dash and 1,600 relay.
Reid, the national leader who won the NCAA outdoors as a
freshman and the NCAA indoors in March, broke her own school record
in the 400 with a clocking of 50.86 seconds. The junior also
anchored Texas' 1,600 relay that recorded a season-best clocking of
3:29.40.
Feeling good was something that escaped Wagner and Boswell.
Fighting gusty winds that played havoc with their approaches,
Wagner failed to clear the opening bar of 6-11 to no-height for the
first time in his life. Boswell, a native of Brompton, Ontario,
Canada, who was competing in front of his mother, three sisters,
girlfriend and numerous other friends, passed at 6-11, cleared 7- 0
1/2 on his second try and missed all three attempts at 7-2 1/4.
For Wagner, who competed most of the year on a left knee that
will require arthroscopic surgery in about two weeks for cartilage
damage, Thursday's competition pretty much told the story of his
season.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. When high-end retailer Neiman Marcus
announces the grand opening of its Worth Avenue store in the year
2000 or so, only island residents will know.
To prove its target customer lives in Palm Beach and that it
will not be regional store, Neiman Marcus agreed not to advertise
in major local newspapers, on television, radio or through mass
mailings for a year after it opens.
That was only one of many conditions the Dallas-based retailer
agreed to gain approval of a three-story, 48,661-square foot store
from the town council by a 4-1 vote.
The Mediterranean Revival-style building with two levels of
underground parking will be on the easternmost block of Worth
Avenue, across the street from rival Saks and the Esplanade
shopping center.
Developer Murray Goodman, who owns the Neiman's site, also agree
to donate 19,000 square feet of land for a park at the southwest
corner of Peruvian Avenue and South County Road. A 20-space parking
lot on Peruvian also will be replaced with a park.
Architects trimmed 8,400-square feet from the original plans,
promised valet parking and will pay for an extra police officer in
the area from November through April to handle traffic.
In addition, Neiman's customers will park free, and others will
pay 15 percent less than at a lot at the western end of Worth
Avenue during the winter season.
The Palm Beach Neiman's will advertise only in publications that
circulate on the island and will mail only to zip code 33480, an
area that includes Palm Beach and South Palm Beach.
No other Palm Beach store is restricted from advertising in The
Palm Beach Post, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel or on television,
but Councilman Leslie Shaw wants the council to consider such
conditions for other major stores as well.
Town planning consultant William Brisson said the store would
have less traffic and cover less space than a group of small stores
on the same site.
Wade, a Texas AM senior from Elgin, rolled his eyes and took a
deep sigh after crossing first at the NCAA outdoor track and field
championships.
The Texas women had another good day of qualifying, advancing
Vaughn in the high hurdles, LaKeisha Backus and Kim McGruder in the
100, Suziann Reid and Toya Brown in the 400 and their 1,600 relay.
Elizabeth Diaz failed to advance in the 1,500 when her time of 4
minutes, 22.18 seconds missed the cutoff by one spot.
Wagner, the University of Texas' defending NCAA outdoor high
jump champion, concluded an injury-plagued junior season by failing
to clear the opening height at this year's meet. For Wagner, it was
a fitting end.
Wagner's training partner, Mark Boswell, also was disappointed.
The UT freshman had the nation's top leap entering the competition
(7 feet, 6 inches), but could clear only 7-0 1/2 recently to finish
tied for 10th.
Thornton felt better after the 1,600-meter relay prelims. The
Longhorns' quartet of Matt Ellis, David Aaron, Terrence Wakefield
and Calvin Williams ran the fifth-fastest qualifying time, 3
minutes, 6.10 seconds, to advance to the finals.
The Longhorns women, meanwhile, fared well in their bid for
their first outdoor team championship since 1986. The UT women
advanced nearly everyone they expected to except for Liz Diaz in
the 1,500, and got sparkling performances from Suziann Reid in the
400 dash and 1,600 relay.
Reid, the national leader who won the NCAA outdoors as a
freshman and the NCAA indoors in March, broke her own school record
in the 400 with a clocking of 50.86 seconds. The junior also
anchored Texas' 1,600 relay that recorded a season-best clocking of
3:29.40.
Feeling good was something that escaped Wagner and Boswell.
Fighting gusty winds that played havoc with their approaches,
Wagner failed to clear the opening bar of 6-11 to no-height for the
first time in his life. Boswell, a native of Brompton, Ontario,
Canada, who was competing in front of his mother, three sisters,
girlfriend and numerous other friends, passed at 6-11, cleared 7- 0
1/2 on his second try and missed all three attempts at 7-2 1/4.
For Wagner, who competed most of the year on a left knee that
will require arthroscopic surgery in about two weeks for cartilage
damage, Thursday's competition pretty much told the story of his
season.
FIERZE, Albania The rusted hulk of a ferry, its bilge pumps
spewing water into the emerald green Drinit River and its diesel
engine rattling, has become for hundreds of young men the last leg
on a journey to war.
On the upper decks small knots of ethnic Albanians, some of the
600,000 Albanians in Germany and Switzerland, squatted and
whispered among themselves.
Six bearded Islamic militants with white skullcaps stood near
the railing with thousand-mile stares that seemed to inhibit the
conversation around them. The milling groups and hushed tones gave
the boat, which shuttles each day the two hours between Koman and
Fierze, the aura of a troop ship heading into battle.
The men have left behind families, jobs, however menial, and
peace to fight for a separate state with the Kosovo Liberation Army
against the Serbian military.
Many speak German better than they do Albanian and know little
of their homeland other than the idealized visions imparted to them
by their refugee parents in cramped apartments in Munich or Zurich.
Most are motivated by a romantic fervor that must make up for an
appalling lack of military preparation.
The location of the training camps in the lawless backlands of
northern Albania has become the focus of intense interest. The
Albanian government, which since the collapse of its central
administration last year has little influence here, says the camps
do not exist.
None of the men interviewed, even those who said they had been
trained and were about to head over the mountains into Kosovo, were
willing to say where the training took place.
The ubiquitous presence of men in combat boots and black fatigue
pants in the border towns of Tropoje and Bajram Curri seems to
suggest that the camps are inside Albania along the frontier with
Serbia.
The counterinsurgency campaign begun by the Serbs in March to
wipe out the rebels in the central Drenica region in Kosovo
Province set off the rush to fight by the young Albanians in the
diaspora.
Gruesome pictures of some of the 80 people killed in the Serbian
sweep in March, mostly women, children and the elderly, were widely
disseminated by the ethnic Albanian leadership. Exile groups put
the grisly photos on the Internet.
A 24-year-old university student, who gave his nom de guerre as
Gjon and who was born and has lived all his life in Germany, sat
with six friends in a small coffee shop in downtown Bajram Curri.
He and the other volunteers will cross the border in a day or two.
They will travel into an area where the Serbian military has been
pounding villages with heavy artillery for a week, and where
streams of refugees are fleeing into Albania.
Western observers say as many as 40,000 people could be
displaced from their homes by the attack, which is intended, they
said, to create a free-fire zone along the length of the border
with Albania.
The Serbs apparently hope that the zone, emptied of civilians,
will be a buffer to halt the smuggling of weapons and supplies from
Albania to the rebels fighting in the province, these officials
said.
The specter of Bosnia, where 200,000 people were killed and
hundreds of thousands of Muslims and ethnic Croats expelled from
their homes by the Serbs, weighs heavily on the volunteers. All
said Kosovo, where 90 percent of the 2 million people are ethnic
Albanian, would be emptied of all ethnic Albanians if Belgrade is
permitted to continue its military operations.
Those who arrive from Europe are confronted with crushing
poverty. The dusty towns in northern Albania often lack running
water and regular electricity. There is often no local authority,
other than a warlord and his group of armed henchmen. Many said
they were still trying to adjust to the chaos, poverty and
isolation.
These are the sounds of Broadway, which is on a roll after years
of hand-wringing. Tonight, with the annual Tony Awards celebration,
Broadway officially closes the book on its most successful season
in history.
Preliminary data from the League of American Theatres and
Producers indicate that more than 11.3 million people saw a
Broadway show this season, breaking the previous attendance high
notched in 1980-81.
Box office income reached an estimated record high of $545
million, a 9.2 percent increase over last season. In December, 23
musicals were running on Broadway the most at any time in modern
history. And the top ticket price for musicals spiraled to $75, a
$5 increase.
Actually, some ticket prices rose even higher. Livent Inc.,
which produces Ragtime, added a $1 surcharge making its tickets
$76 to defray the construction costs of its new Ford Center for
the Performing Arts. Then it established a $125 ticket that
includes entry to a VIP lounge at intermission, refreshments and
free coat check. Who says elitism is dead on Broadway?
Another factor in the attendance and sales records is the way
the theater district is cleaning up its act. Two renovated and
restored, state-of-the-art theatrical palaces have opened along the
formerly tacky, now tourist-friendly, neon-bright 42nd Street
corridor.
Still, it was a bullish year on Broadway. But will this brisk
business spill over into upcoming seasons, or is it a mere fluke?
It seems aggressive marketing from the League of American
Theatres and Producers is working, with Broadway trumpeted through
syndicated television specials and upbeat Web sites. (To see how
they crow about the season, click on http://www.broadway.org.)
In time, the reasoning goes, theater-going habits may take root,
and Broadway could have new patrons for life. So not only is
Broadway not dying, it is sprucing itself up, preparing to sprint
into the 21st century. HAP'S PICKS
Here are my predicted winners of this season's Tony Awards. Tune
in Sunday night to see instantaneously how far off I was.
The canvas is vast and the results are epic, as director Frank
Galati deftly balances so many story lines, and Graciela Daniele's
nimble, musical staging shows the clash of cultures in movement. In
the huge cast are such Tony-worthy performers as Brian Stokes
Mitchell, powerfully towering above the fray as firebrand Coalhouse
Walker, and the ethereal Audra McDonald as his washerwoman lover
reaching out to grab the American Dream. Peter Friedman is fiercely
protective of his daughter and later amusingly aristocratic as
upwardly mobile Tateh. And the delicate Marin Mazzie strikes a
personal chord with her soaring soprano, turning Mother's journey
of self-discovery into the spine of the show.
This is a great musical, one that will continue to move
audiences for years.
The same goes for Taymor's staging of the wildebeest stampede, a
fanciful flight of birds throughout the theater and a magical
assembly of puppet creatures that forms into a stage-high image of
former lion king Mufasa's face. The Elton John-Tim Rice film score
has been bolstered with songs featuring African rhythms and
orchestrations. The design elements are wondrous. Still, the
production feels like it hops from effect to effect, only
occasionally touching the heart as the film did. Taymor's spectacle
inspires awe, but she doesn't have a story that can fully support
her stage wizardry.
Joe Masteroff retooled his script to make the homosexuality more
explicit, and Mendes tossed out some of the conventional musical
comedy numbers. But the revelation is how the Kit Kat Klub's Emcee
insinuates himself throughout the production as a wry observer, and
how lasciviously Alan Cumming redefines the creepy character.
The evening is his, though Natasha Richardson also brings new
dramatic qualities to naive songbird Sally Bowles, wallowing in
decadence and political denial. Her convulsive breakdown during the
title song is a nightmarish stunner. The ensemble, which sings,
dances, plays band instruments and fills various supporting roles,
is a show unto itself.
All of this is set in a theater converted into a Weimar cabaret,
but this environmental approach is the least important part of this
in-your-face production. It could easily be sacrificed if the show
tours, as road presenter and investor PACE Theatrical Group
intends. Meanwhile, life is likely to be a cabaret, old chum, for
the foreseeable future on Broadway.
Manipulative Mag Folan sits inert watching television, barking
orders to her plain, 40-year-old virginal daughter Maureen, the
ironically nicknamed title character. When gentleman caller Pato
Dooley wakes up romantic feelings in Maureen, proposing to her by
letter, Mag worries that she will lose her dutiful servant.
McDonagh and director Garry Hynes get delicious mileage from the
suspense over keeping the letter out of Mag's hands. Audience
sympathies ping-pong between Maureen and Mag, eventually tipped
when Mag dashes Maureen's chance for happiness. What follows is
both grisly and heart-rending.
Much of the play's original Irish cast came to New York, led by
Marie Mullen (Maureen), a wounded bird with highly expressive mood
swings. In the smaller, but showier role of Mag, Anna Manahan is a
wondrous and wily malevolent hulk. Also first rate is Tom Murphy as
Pato's glib younger brother Ray, misguidedly entrusted to deliver
the proposal letter.
Garber is dermatologist Serge, wealthy enough to plunk down a
small fortune for a white-on-white, I-coulda-done-that painting,
but insecure enough to need approval from his buddies. Judgmental
Marc (Alda) feels personally offended by the purchase, sending him
into jags of derisive laughter. Wishy-washy Yvan (Molina) tries to
mediate the situation to disastrous effect.
With its small cast, minimal set requirements and
audience-friendly comedy, Art could have a long future on Broadway,
before spreading throughout the country in regional theaters.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. If he watches the College World Series,
he must do so with greater interest than most, knowing that he once
owned it.
It was a feeling he seemed to have all season in 1995.
Kotsay hit .422 with 18 home runs and 75 RBI for Fullerton in
the regular season, and he went 2-1 with an 0.38 ERA and nine saves
out of the bullpen. Nice.
But once he got to Omaha, things really started to cook. Kotsay
had gone 6-for-13 with a homer and eight RBI in the 1994 Series, so
it's not like he was sneaking up on anybody. But the way he took
the Titans to the 1995 title will live forever in the memories of
those who were there.
 In the first round, he doubled and scored the tying run, put
down a sacrifice bunt to set up the winning run, and came out of
the pen to record the game's final five outs and earn the save in
Fullerton's 6-5 victory against Stanford.
 Tennessee was back for more in the semifinals, and this time
Fullerton beat them 11-0 as Kotsay chipped in with an RBI double.
 Then, in the final against USC, all Kotsay did was hit a
three-run homer and a two-run homer and get the final five outs in
relief.
He went 9-for-16 with three homers, 10 RBI, seven runs scored
and two saves in the Series, and left Omaha holding College World
Series record for career batting average (.517), slugging
percentage (1.103) and grand slams (two). He also tied the records
for home runs (four), championship-game homers (two) and
championship-game RBI (five).
Kotsay, of course, was the Marlins' first-round pick a year
later, and made it to the majors by the summer of 1997. Now that
he's a starter (and hitting .296 in his rookie season), there are
undoubtedly many more glory days ahead. But when it's College World
Series time, one can't help but remember the glory days of the
past.
These business stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,
June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times
News Service.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
GM-FLINT A strike at a General Motors Corp. plant in Flint,
Mich. is the start of what could be a series of summer labor brawls
for the world's largest automaker. And it appears two GM brake
plants in Dayton could again be one of the company's major
battlegrounds. (Wagner, Dayton Daily News) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
MOTOROLA-FOLO A look at where Motorola ranks in its key
markets and where it has to go to rebound after layoffs announced.
Reporting will include coments from industry and stock analysts to
see where they think Moto should cut. Perhaps more specifics on
what jobs where will be cut. (Gallaga, Austin American-Statesman)
ETA 8 p.m. ET.
NIKE Retailers have tried many strategies to sell athletic
apparel. Stores have been decorated to look like locker rooms.
Photos of famous football and basketball stars have lined their
walls. Sporting events have been shown on in-store televisions. But
in many cases, women have received short shrift, despite the fact
that they are taking to the field, the pool and the track in
growing numbers. Footwear giant Nike Inc. has taken a step toward
changing this with its new Nike Women's Shops stores within a
store dedicated to women's shoes and apparel that were launched in
Maryland in April. The nation's fifth shop and its first in Texas will formally open in the month-old Finish Line Inc. athletic
superstore in Barton Creek Square mall today. (Austin
American-Statesman) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
FPL-RECORDS WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Summer's not here yet, but
Florida Power Light has already set records for electricity use
throughout the state. FPL officials said customers are pumping up
air conditioning units and putting a noticeable but manageable
strain on their demand. Palm Beach County residents have been
dealing daily with almost record-high temperatures. With a
50-percent humidity level, the heat index, which is how hot it
feels when the humidity is considered, stayed just on this side of
100 degrees. (Colavecchio/Mnookin, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
KETTERING, Ohio Rev. John Long has conducted hundreds of
wedding rehearsals in his 30-plus years in the ministry, but he
hopes none will go smoother than the one scheduled for today at Oak
Creek United Church of Christ in Kettering, Ohio.
Long will be among thousands of transplanted or traveling
Indians fans at Cinergy Field this weekend as the Reds host the
Indians in night games today (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a day
game Sunday. It will be the first time the Indians visit Cincinnati
for regular-season games.
The Saturday game is sold out, but 2,000 standing-room tickets
will go on sale at 5:05 p.m. Saturday at Cinergy. The Reds expect
total attendance for the series to surpass 140,000. The record for
a three-game series is 152,565, set against the Los Angeles Dodgers
in 1974.
Joining Long for tonight's pilgrimage will be his wife Shirley,
also a Cleveland native, and daughters Mary and Beth. Also going
are Dave Higgins, Beth's husband, their two children, Hannah and
Andrew, and Barbara Cassady, Shirley's cousin.
Maintaining ties to the Indians hasn't been easy for Dayton-area
residents, including Jim Dennis, an Oakwood attorney who moved here
from Cleveland in 1976, when the Big Red Machine was at its peak
and the Indians were in the midst of a decline that produced only
five winning seasons from 1967 to 1993.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
EVANDER-MAIN NEW YORK What's next for Holyfield? With
Friday's cancellation, the next fighter officially in line is
Vaughn Bean, the No. 1 challenger in the IBF and a mandatory
opponent for Evander. But his preference all along has been to meet
Lennox Lewis. (Schultz, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.
ET.
EVANDER-HUMMER NEW YORK Friday's cancellation is the latest
bizarre chapter in the strange career of Evander Holyfield: a
column by AJC columnist Steve Hummer (Hummer, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
NASCAR-DECALS What's in a decal? A lot of money if you're a
NASCAR team owner. We look at Bill Elliott's car, count the number
of decals and put a dollar amount on the sponsorship. Why drivers
love it; why businesses covet the spot on the hood. (McCollister,
Atlanta Journal-Constitution) WITH LAYOUT (This is the AJC's weekly
NASCAR page, which normally runs on Sunday but is running Saturday
this week because of the race Saturday night.) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
GOODWILL-JONES Marion Jones, a former basketball player at
North Carolina, has become America's best women's sprinter. She'll
challenge Dail Devers and others in the 100, 200 and long jump at
the Goodwill Games. (Fish, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.
ET.
INDIANS-INOHIO KETTERING, Ohio Rev. John Long will be among
thousands of transplanted or traveling Indians fans at Cinergy
Field this weekend as the Reds host the Indians in night games
today (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a day game Sunday. It will
be the first time the Indians visit Cincinnati for regular-season
games. (Williams, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.
TIBURON, Calif. When you're tackling the highest peak in North
America, what's a mere staircase at home, even if you have to
scramble up and down it dozens of times a day?
This weekend, the 50-year-old Marin County resident will head a
three-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,
the tallest mountain on the continent.
She's leading a particularly resolute band of 12 five are
breast cancer survivors, and the remaining climbers are young women
determined to defeat the disease that afflicts one in eight women.
The majestic, 20,320-foot Alaskan mountain, known to many by its
Native American name of Denali, is often treacherous, its weather
fierce and unrelentingly frigid, epitomized during a recent spate
of storms that killed two climbers, one of them a would-be rescuer.
Experts say climbers on Denali are often assaulted by some of
the coldest, windiest weather in the world due to the mountain's
height and proximity to the Arctic Circle. Only about half the
1,100 climbers authorized every year to tackle Denali actually
reach the top, the others falling victim to frostbite or altitude
sickness.
Both expeditions, sponsored by the Breast Cancer Fund, a San
Francisco nonprofit organization founded in 1992, were intended as
metaphors depicting the battle against breast cancer. Aconcagua
raised $1.6 million distributed by the fund to various research
and advocacy programs.
Knoble, a consultant who recently retired from her job as a vice
president for Pacific Telesis, is herself still climbing a medical
mountain. First diagnosed with the cancer in 1993, she had a
recurrence last year and underwent double mastectomies.
On Thursday, three Bay Area members of the expedition departed
for Alaska from San Francisco Sandy Badillo, a tennis pro in Half
Moon Bay who was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago; Cathy
Ann Taylor, a Sausalito mountaineer who has worked as a guide in
Nepal and Tibet; and Marcy Ely, a teacher and family counselor who
lives in Napa.
A mountain climber since she was a girl, the 50-year-old Ely
trained arduously for two years for McKinley. She won't be making
the actual climb, however. Last month she learned that the cancer,
first diagnosed in 1991, had returned and spread to her liver and
lymph gland.
These business stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,
June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times
News Service.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
GM-FLINT A strike at a General Motors Corp. plant in Flint,
Mich. is the start of what could be a series of summer labor brawls
for the world's largest automaker. And it appears two GM brake
plants in Dayton could again be one of the company's major
battlegrounds. (Wagner, Dayton Daily News) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
MOTOROLA-FOLO A look at where Motorola ranks in its key
markets and where it has to go to rebound after layoffs announced.
Reporting will include coments from industry and stock analysts to
see where they think Moto should cut. Perhaps more specifics on
what jobs where will be cut. (Gallaga, Austin American-Statesman)
ETA 8 p.m. ET.
NIKE Retailers have tried many strategies to sell athletic
apparel. Stores have been decorated to look like locker rooms.
Photos of famous football and basketball stars have lined their
walls. Sporting events have been shown on in-store televisions. But
in many cases, women have received short shrift, despite the fact
that they are taking to the field, the pool and the track in
growing numbers. Footwear giant Nike Inc. has taken a step toward
changing this with its new Nike Women's Shops stores within a
store dedicated to women's shoes and apparel that were launched in
Maryland in April. The nation's fifth shop and its first in Texas will formally open in the month-old Finish Line Inc. athletic
superstore in Barton Creek Square mall today. (Austin
American-Statesman) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
FPL-RECORDS WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Summer's not here yet, but
Florida Power Light has already set records for electricity use
throughout the state. FPL officials said customers are pumping up
air conditioning units and putting a noticeable but manageable
strain on their demand. Palm Beach County residents have been
dealing daily with almost record-high temperatures. With a
50-percent humidity level, the heat index, which is how hot it
feels when the humidity is considered, stayed just on this side of
100 degrees. (Colavecchio/Mnookin, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
EVANDER-MAIN NEW YORK What's next for Holyfield? With
Friday's cancellation, the next fighter officially in line is
Vaughn Bean, the No. 1 challenger in the IBF and a mandatory
opponent for Evander. But his preference all along has been to meet
Lennox Lewis. (Schultz, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.
ET.
EVANDER-HUMMER NEW YORK Friday's cancellation is the latest
bizarre chapter in the strange career of Evander Holyfield: a
column by AJC columnist Steve Hummer (Hummer, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
NASCAR-DECALS What's in a decal? A lot of money if you're a
NASCAR team owner. We look at Bill Elliott's car, count the number
of decals and put a dollar amount on the sponsorship. Why drivers
love it; why businesses covet the spot on the hood. (McCollister,
Atlanta Journal-Constitution) WITH LAYOUT (This is the AJC's weekly
NASCAR page, which normally runs on Sunday but is running Saturday
this week because of the race Saturday night.) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
GOODWILL-JONES Marion Jones, a former basketball player at
North Carolina, has become America's best women's sprinter. She'll
challenge Dail Devers and others in the 100, 200 and long jump at
the Goodwill Games. (Fish, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.
ET.
INDIANS-INOHIO KETTERING, Ohio Rev. John Long will be among
thousands of transplanted or traveling Indians fans at Cinergy
Field this weekend as the Reds host the Indians in night games
today (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a day game Sunday. It will
be the first time the Indians visit Cincinnati for regular-season
games. (Williams, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.
TIBURON, Calif. When you're tackling the highest peak in North
America, what's a mere staircase at home, even if you have to
scramble up and down it dozens of times a day?
This weekend, the 50-year-old Marin County resident will head a
three-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,
the tallest mountain on the continent.
She's leading a particularly resolute band of 12 five are
breast cancer survivors, and the remaining climbers are young women
determined to defeat the disease that afflicts one in eight women.
The majestic, 20,320-foot Alaskan mountain, known to many by its
Native American name of Denali, is often treacherous, its weather
fierce and unrelentingly frigid, epitomized during a recent spate
of storms that killed two climbers, one of them a would-be rescuer.
Experts say climbers on Denali are often assaulted by some of
the coldest, windiest weather in the world due to the mountain's
height and proximity to the Arctic Circle. Only about half the
1,100 climbers authorized every year to tackle Denali actually
reach the top, the others falling victim to frostbite or altitude
sickness.
Both expeditions, sponsored by the Breast Cancer Fund, a San
Francisco nonprofit organization founded in 1992, were intended as
metaphors depicting the battle against breast cancer. Aconcagua
raised $1.6 million distributed by the fund to various research
and advocacy programs.
Knoble, a consultant who recently retired from her job as a vice
president for Pacific Telesis, is herself still climbing a medical
mountain. First diagnosed with the cancer in 1993, she had a
recurrence last year and underwent double mastectomies.
On Thursday, three Bay Area members of the expedition departed
for Alaska from San Francisco Sandy Badillo, a tennis pro in Half
Moon Bay who was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago; Cathy
Ann Taylor, a Sausalito mountaineer who has worked as a guide in
Nepal and Tibet; and Marcy Ely, a teacher and family counselor who
lives in Napa.
A mountain climber since she was a girl, the 50-year-old Ely
trained arduously for two years for McKinley. She won't be making
the actual climb, however. Last month she learned that the cancer,
first diagnosed in 1991, had returned and spread to her liver and
lymph gland.
MEXICO CITY Light rains throughout Mexico are helping thin the
number of wildfires in the country, but the heavy rains needed to
douse the largest blazes might not come until next month, U.S.
relief officials said Friday.
And once the fires are out, officials say, global agricultural
experts must eradicate the slash-and-burn techniques responsible
for countless fires each year.
The fires and how to prevent them will be on the agenda when
Mexico's President Ernesto Zedillo meets with President Clinton
next week on a trip to address the United Nations World Drug
Summit, said J. Brian Atwood, administrator for the Agency for
International Development.
The number of Mexican wildfires have dropped from 273 on May 24
to 143 on Thursday, Atwood told foreign correspondents.
Atwood and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman led an
observation team on a three-day tour to assess U.S. assistance to
Mexican firefighters.
The team visited the states of Oaxaca and Chiapas, where about
half of the country's wildfires are concentrated.
The hot spot remains the Chimalapas jungle preserve in Oaxaca,
where more than 1,700 firefighters are pitted against a network of
blazes in roadless, jungle-clad ravines.
Atwood and Glickman spoke of the scale of the disaster in nearly
apocalyptic terms. Nearly 30,000 fires have been registered in
Mexico and Central America since December. 
Authorities say fires set by farmers to clear land are
responsible, but an intense drought in Mexico and Central America
contributed to this year's wildfires.
The practice is ubiquitous in Asia, Latin America and Africa; 20
percent of the greenhouse gases put into the world's atmosphere
annually come from forest and agricultural fires, Atwood said.
Two days into the campaign for the November 3 election, Davis
has already seized on his opponent's opposition to abortion to try
to paint him as an extremist.
Davis is hoping a pro-abortion rights message will resonate with
uncommitted women voters especially independents and moderate
Republicans whose support he needs in what is expected to be a
close race.
State politics watchers say the message plays well with voters
who view support for abortion rights as a litmus test, but may have
little effect on the electorate at large.
Staking his own claim to the center, Lungren has sought to
moderate his abortion stance. As governor, he says he would seek
only three changes: ending taxpayer-funded abortions and late-term
procedures, and reinstating a state law requiring parental consent.
Well, get ready. I mean, get ready. Because it looks like it's
a-coming unless someone knocks some sense into the folks at NBC and
TNT/TBS right quick.
If you haven't been following this ongoing non-story, General
Electric's NBC and Time Warner's cable networks are considering
launching a new pro football league by as early as 1999 that would
compete against the NFL and its network partners, ABC, ESPN, Fox
and CBS.
Left at the altar by NFL owners when future TV broadcast rights
were auctioned off, NBC and TNT are looking for programming to fill
what now looms as a gaping hole in their entertainment schedules.
We can sympathize with their loss. In the fragmented TV world of
today, where viewers can and do pick from dozens of channels,
networks have a harder and harder time attracting large,
demographically attractive viewing audiences for advertisers.
Pro football is still the best way to capture the attention of
one of those key audiences, young adult males. Losing the NFL,
which NBC and Turner did when they chose not to ante up the
billions necessary to stay in the game, cost the networks
significant advertising revenue and prestige for years to come.
Some critics of the new league proposal like to think of the
plan as a revenge scheme. Who knows? Maybe vengeance is a part of
it. Getting back at the folks who run the NFL would be great sport
for the jilted networks. But the guess here is that, in the
sobering light of day, the networks are far more businesslike than
that implies.
Not even the networks seem completely certain of that yet. On
the plus side, there may be some advertisers out there who'd look
at a new league as a viable alternative, given the soaring ad rates
being charged by the NFL. Also, there may be some economic benefits
to the networks owning their own league eliminating the middle
man, as it were.
For now, executives at NBC and Turner will only say they're
moving close to a commitment which they are likely to announce in a
few months.
Certainly, a new league is not in the interest of football fans.
Salaries in the NFL, thanks to the new TV deal, are on their way to
rocketing to an average of more than $1 million per player. Yet,
quality is hardly up, thanks to constant expansion.
Depth at the skill positions in the league is particularly
suspect. Spreading the limited number of capable quarterbacks, for
one, across a dozen teams in a new league will only water down a
product like a ballpark beer.
The viewing appetite for a new league also seems limited, at
least based on history. Did anybody really watch the USFL, the WFL
or, now, NFL Europe?
Years ago, you could excuse Donald Trump and other millionaires
for financing franchises in startup football leagues. Besides their
considerable egos, they were fueled by the memories of that great
success, the American Football League.
The AFL wrestled the brawnier NFL to the mat, sure, but that was
30 years ago when the sports and television landscape was quite
different.
The NFL had far fewer teams then, so there were far more
talented football players looking for work in the pro game. The NFL
had become rather conservative in its play calling, too, creating
demand for the AFL's wide-open style of play. Further, lots of
growing, attractive markets craved pro sports franchises back then,
and the American TV viewing audience was just in its infancy.
Not only is there plenty of pro football, there is college game
after college game every Saturday afternoon and evening in the
fall. There is a possibility that the new league would play in the
summer, but you remember how well that idea has worked in the past.
The NFL, stodgy as it is, could use a good shaking up or two.
Just listening to the incessant thumb-sucking debate over something
like instant replay makes you want to head butt your Motorola.
BERKELEY, Calif. As the dust settles from the Democratic
gubernatorial primary, we Californians should congratulate
ourselves on finally learning not to be duped by television
candidates.
For years we were mesmerized, even intoxicated, by expensive,
glowing television commercials with vivid graphics, flowing music
and easy-to-swallow sound bites.
But Californians are getting smarter. After two generations of
television politics, we're finally remembering that real
politicians like Davis get to know their constituents over the
years through face-to-face, extended conversations. Fundamentally,
real politics is about building trust over the long haul.
The point was this: Politics was hard. Politicians had to learn
to sweat, to take hard knocks in front of tough crowds. The lesson?
It takes courage to gain voters' respect.
But TV politics are shown to TV audiences, who can't talk back.
National voting rates have declined, from 65 percent of eligible
voters in 1960 to less than 50 percent today. Can this have
something to do with the decline of real politics?
We cannot and should not, however, entirely blame television
which, in many cases, serves as an efficient means for engaging the
citizenry. The trick is to achieve a balance, which is not
difficult. It simply requires making TV politics more like real
politics.
An example: As campaign manager of a 1996 congressional
candidate in Massachusetts, I noted that statewide politics there
are treated more like a sporting event than a soap opera. John
Kerry and Bill Weld had six count 'em six hour-long televised
debates during prime time in the months before the general
election.
Journalists drove up public excitement, and citizens crowded
around TV sets in living rooms and bars. The next day, the debate
was the talk of the town.
But there is hope. After nominating workhorse Gray Davis, let's
get some real politics going between him and the Republican
nominee, Dan Lungren. Californians should advocate a grueling,
substantive, non-sound-bite set of at least five hour-long,
prime-time TV debates.
The networks will make money if the debates are publicized with
vim and vigor. And Californians will trust Lungren and Davis more
if they feel as if they've gotten to known them, at length and in
their own words.
California's leader should have the courage to step in front of
the crowd and risk a few rotten tomatoes, if that's what it takes.
Our greatest politicians, like Daniel Webster and Abraham Lincoln,
gained their fame on the public platform. They look like giants
next to today's celluloid actors.
(Michael Signer, a consultant in several campaigns, is a
doctoral candidate in political science at the University of
California at Berkeley.)
More than 100 of the 10,000 Jewish children who left Germany,
Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland on trains and then ships for
Britain between 1938 and 1940 are attending the reunion, some of
them meeting one another for the first time.
Those attending the reunion, which started Friday and goes
through Sunday in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va., are
taking part in workshops, hearing speeches and sharing stories of
their lives after their escape. They will visit the United States
Holocaust Museum in Washington on Sunday.
Most of the survivors now live in the United States. Some have
come from Europe, some from Israel and some from as far away as
Nepal.
In November 1938, Jewish leaders in Europe and in the United
States appealed to major western nations to take in the Jewish
children under Nazi Germany's control.
Children left their parents behind as they fled to England. They
lived with foster families or in orphanages in England, Ireland,
Scotland and Wales.
Eva Burger, a Kindertransport survivor now living in Silver
Spring, Md., was 13 when she and her two sisters were rushed out of
their home town, Vienna, Austria, and shipped to London in 1939.
Burger, who only spoke German at the time, said language and
cultural barriers made her new life in England more difficult.
She was eventually reunited nine years later with her sisters
and their mother, who had survived the death camps. Her mother told
them their father had died in one of them.
ALLSTATE-SUIT (Los Angeles) Allstate Insurance Co. reportedly
is suing Los Angeles-based Building Permit Consultants for more
than $1 million in damages, claiming the firm persuaded area
residents to file false claims related to the Northridge
Earthquake. By Gregory J. Wilcox.
AIG-20th (Los Angeles) A hostile suitor has come a-calling at
20th Century's door, and the Los Angeles-based insurer can't do
anything about it. American International Group and its affiliates
on Friday raised its stake in 20th Century from 42.6 percent to
43.2 percent of common shares outstanding. By Deborah Adamson.
JAKKS-REBOUND (Los Angeles) About three years ago, THQ Inc.
co-founder Jack Friedman was ousted from the executive offices at
the Calabasas-based maker of computer game software. Now he has
rebounded as founder of the nearby Malibu-based toy company JAKKS
Pacific Inc. By Enrique Rivero.
WASHINGTON House Majority Leader Dick Armey made Bob Hope
laugh on Friday, but he bombed in Congress with an erroneous report
that the beloved comedian had died.
In another reminder of the perils of Internet news, Armey,
R-Texas, spread a premature report of Hope's death after The
Associated Press mistakenly put an advance copy of the 95-year-old
showman's obituary on its Web site.
One of Armey's aides gave the Internet story to Armey, who
handed it to Rep. Bob Stump of Arizona and asked Stump to announce
the death on the House floor.
The news caught everyone by surprise including Hope, who was
eating breakfast at his California home when his death was
announced. Ward Grant, Hope's longtime friend and spokesman, said
he immediately called Hope's home to check the veracity of the
report.
The mistake was no laughing matter in Washington, where Stump
and Armey were deluged with phone calls from reporters and Hope
fans.
The Associated Press quickly removed the offending item from its
Web site. News organizations routinely prepare obituaries on
prominent people who are ill or old, but the stories, obviously,
are not intended for public release until the subject is, in fact,
dead.
In corporate conference rooms, in dentists' chairs and over
dinner, the continuing news about both Viagra and Monica Lewinsky
appears to have accelerated a change in the way many Americans
speak about a subject that some would prefer be barely spoken about
at all.
In recent months, the subjects of sex and the language
describing sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a few inches
closer to the conversationally commonplace. Many Americans say they
have found themselves using words they would never previously have
used, discussing erectile dysfunction at dinner parties, talking to
their children about adultery, laughing (uncomfortably) at sex
jokes told in the presence of people like their bosses.
Dr. Mark Schwartz, the director of the Masters Johnson Clinic
in St. Louis, recently visited a new dentist for the first time and
says he became the audience for a battery of jokes about oral sex
told by the dentist, a man, in the presence of a female hygienist.
At a black-tie dinner at the New York Botanical Garden last
month attended by 1,100 people, Peter Bijur, the chairman and chief
executive of Texaco, strode to the podium and opened with a joke
suggesting that some of the floral centerpieces were having
Viagra-assisted erections.
One big reason for that has been the attention lavished by the
news media on issues like Gennifer Flowers' account of what she
said was a 12-year affair with President Clinton along with Paula
Corbin Jones' graphic allegation that the president had
propositioned her in a hotel room in Little Rock, Ark.
There are many other examples: the coverage of the relationship
of Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado and Donna Rice; the arrest of Paul
Reubens, the actor who played Pee Wee Herman, on charges of
indecent exposure; the case of Lorena Bobbitt, who cut off her
husband's penis, and the trial of Marv Albert, the sportscaster, on
sexual assault charges.
Then in January, the charges that Clinton had an affair with a
White House intern, Ms. Lewinsky, catapulted oral sex onto the
front page, trailing behind it unsubstantiated rumors of such
things as a semen-stained dress and rumpled tissues retrieved from
the trash. Two months later, the Food and Drug Administration's
approval of Viagra put impotence at the top of the news.
Letitia Baldrige, the authority on manners, tosses a Viagra joke
into lectures. Robert Knight, the director of cultural studies for
the conservative Family Research Council, recalls parents chatting
about Albert's sexual proclivities on the sidelines of a Little
League game in suburban Virginia.
Debra Haffner, president of the Sexuality Information and
Education Council of the United States, also volunteers as a Sunday
school teacher in Westport, Conn., and recently found herself faced
with an eighth-grade class's questions about why Ms. Lewinsky might
have saved a semen-stained dress.
Dr. Tom Lee, the medical director for Partners Community Health
Care, a network of doctors and hospitals in Boston, recalls the
discussion that ensued at a meeting at his office when it was
announced that one health insurance company would cover the cost of
12 Viagra pills a month.
One colleague told Lee that she did not believe the estimates of
the average number of times couples have intercourse in a month.
She suggested that men running health maintenance organizations
were authorizing more pills than necessary, in a kind of sexual
swaggering.
Neil Lewis, a 55-year-old management psychologist in Atlanta,
was eating lunch with the chief executive of a company that had
hired him as a consultant on organization effectiveness, when he
was startled to be solicited for advice on whether the man should
try Viagra, the pill to treat impotence.
Patricia Marx, a writer and one of a half-dozen women who took
part in a round-table discussion of the sexual allegations against
Clinton, the transcript of which appeared in The New York Observer,
said it seemed as if new, usable words have been added to the
dictionary.
Again and again, news media coverage has legitimized language
and topics once considered taboo. Stories with sexual elements are
reported on the evening news, dissected on talk shows and picked up
by late-night comedians, whose jokes resurface the next day at the
proverbial water cooler.
Robert Lichter, president of the Center for Media and Public
Affairs in Washington, said Jay Leno, David Letterman, Conan
O'Brien, and Bill Maher told 729 jokes about Clinton's sex life in
their monologues in the first five months of 1998 (compared with
about 250 in all 12 months of 1997).
The shift is visible elsewhere. Karlyn Bowman, a resident fellow
at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington who studies
public opinion and demographic trends, says pollsters are now using
terminology she had never seen in survey research.
But last year, Yankelovich Partners asked bluntly whether the
president should submit to an examination of his genitals if
ordered to do so by the court in the Jones case. A question in a
different poll repeated verbatim Ms. Jones' description of what she
said Clinton did in her presence.
Not everyone sees a difference in what Americans are talking
about. Some say they believe that most people have always spoken
about sex and made jokes about it; the only difference now, they
contend, is that the news media are doing it too.
Among those who do believe that things have changed, some say it
is for the better. Anything that makes people more comfortable
discussing sex is good, they reason. Others, however, worry that
talk of sex is coarsening public conversation and edging out more
urgent topics.
OFRA, West Bank Yoyoda and Tamar Nizri are staying put. For
the young Israeli couple, the wild deer and unspoiled landscape
surrounding this isolated West Bank settlement is enough to
persuade them to remain.
They don't think much about the prospect that their settlement
15 miles north of Ramallah is likely to become an enclave in a sea
of Palestinian-controlled land if Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
carries out the long-awaited troop withdrawal that Clinton
administration mediators have been pressing.
Their sentiments echo those of many of the 161,000 Jewish
settlers sprinkled throughout the West Bank. Shocked by the
prospect of living as Israeli satellites in what will likely become
Palestine in any final peace deal, many settlers prefer not to
dwell too much on an uncertain future. Instead, they take each day
at a time and hope that their government will find a way to keep
all of the 144 West Bank settlements under Israeli sovereignty.
But as U.S. pressure on Israel to cede additional territory to
Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority grows, the settlers'
ambiguous situation grows harder to ignore. For months, Secretary
of State Madeleine Albright has been pushing Israel to withdraw
from an additional 13 percent of the West Bank, and Netanyahu has,
in public at least, held firm with an offer of 9 percent.
The implication has been that giving up more than 9 percent of
the West Bank would endanger Israel's security, but few people here
know exactly how it would. Netanyahu has guarded his negotiating
positions so closely that even members of his own Cabinet complain
that no one has seen the official map except the four members of
the inner circle.
U.S. mediators have not drawn up maps to avoid seeming to be
deciding on Israel's security, which they have said only Israel can
decide. The 13 percent figure was chosen so that the Palestinians,
who now fully or partially control 27 percent of the West Bank,
would hold an even 40 percent when negotiations on a final peace
deal begin.
That means settlers have had to guess for themselves what the
various proposals would hold for them.
In 1996, they asked a Hebrew University hydrologist, Haim
Gvirtzman, to draw up maps so they could determine how much land
could be ceded to Palestinians while keeping all settlements in
place.
Gvirtzman, a religious settler from the West Bank settlement of
Dolev, determined that Israel would be able to withdraw from only
30 percent about the amount already turned over to Palestinian
control. Anything more would affect at least some settlements,
Gvirtzman determined.
According to Gvirtzman's maps. which were eventually published
by the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan
University, a 9 percent Israeli withdrawal would affect about 1,700
settlers living in 10 settlements. If the percentage jumps to 13,
about 9,000 settlers in 18 settlements would be affected. Ofra,
home to the Nizris, would be cut off from Israeli-controlled
territory.
Amid these concerns, Ariel Sharon, Israel's formidable security
hawk and a member of Netanyahu's inner circle, has focused in
public on military issues whenever he tours the West Bank. He
follows the Israeli consensus with the view that Israel must retain
the Jordan Valley, the Judea Desert and a wide corridor to
Jerusalem.
But in his view, Israel must also retain the mountain of western
Samaria, under which a major water aquifer lies, hilltops near
Nablus, where early warning stations are located, and a radius
around Ben Gurion Airport east of Tel Aviv that would cut into part
of the West Bank.
While Sharon's concerns are aimed at Israelis, they have the
potential to affect tens of thousands of Palestinians who live in
these areas.
Netanyahu argues that 98 percent of the Palestinian population
is under Palestinian rule. But that figure is slightly misleading:
98 percent are under the Palestinian Authority's civilian control meaning Palestinian officials collect taxes and run schools there but only 37 percent of Palestinians fall under the full
jurisdiction of Arafat's entity, according to Gvirtzman.
For the Palestinians, the difference is crucial: Israeli
soldiers cannot enter areas under full control of the Palestinian
Authority, but the Israelis still patrol areas they jointly control
with the Palestinians, and they can still set up roadblocks, make
arrests and impose curfews in those areas.
Surrounded by more Palestinian villages than Israeli
settlements, Ofra stands a chance to survive any further withdrawal
only if Israel builds a by-pass road connecting it to the Jordan
Valley to the east.
If that happens, the Nizris don't know what they would do. Far
from the stereotype of the settler armed with a machine gun and a
mission to reclaim the land of the Bible and prevent a Palestinian
state, the Nizris might move north to the Galilee region or south
to the Negev Desert.
Or they may stay near Ofra in their tiny home with their
3-month-old baby, bean bags on the floor and wooden Indian carvings
on the wall.
ELMONT, N.Y. -- Bob Baffert figures he's done all he can do to
prepare Real Quiet for today's rendevous with history. Now, he just
has to hang loose and wait.
That wait will end late this afternoon when Real Quiet enters
the starting gate for the 130th Belmont Stakes, the 1{-mile test of
the champion.
If the skinny bay colt with a crooked leg manages to win, Real
Quiet will become only the 12th horse ever to wear the Triple Crown
and the first in two decades. Affirmed was the last to accomplish
this Herculean task, 20 years ago to the day.
A victory would be worth $5.6 million to a horse that cost only
$17,000, a bargain Cinderella that Baffert nicknamed the Fish
because of his long and narrow build. Now, the Fish has turned into
a shark, ready to devour his 12 opponents.
Those gods have been smiling a lot on Team Baffert. After early
forecasts for thunderstorms, today's weather is expected to be
breezy and warm under sunny skies. A crowd of 70,000 is expected to
come out to root for Real Quiet, Baffert and owner Mike Pegram.
Several critics have blasted Real Quiet, winner of only four of
14 starts, as unworthy of the Triple Crown. But Baffert ignores
them.
No Baffert fans will be rooting harder for Real Quiet than Bob
and Beverly Lewis, the owners of Silver Charm. The Newport Beach
couple flew to New York to watch another of their horses, Baquero,
compete on Belmont Day's stakes-heavy undercard. But they say
they'd like nothing better than to see Real Quiet do what Silver
Charm couldn't.
The Indian government said it they exploded five nuclear
devices, and the Pakistanis six, in underground tests between May
11 and May 30. Seismic waves from those explosions rippled through
the Earth's crust, and some were detected by seismographs hundreds
and thousands of miles away.
However, Western seismologists are investigating the possibility
that the Indians and Pakistanis successfully detonated fewer bombs
than claimed, according to Thorne Lay of the University of
California at Santa Cruz, an adviser to the U.S. government on
monitoring of nuclear tests.
Lay said some explosions may have fallen short of critical mass.
In a normal atomic bomb, the fissionable material is compressed
extremely quickly into a super-dense state called critical mass.
This unleashes a flood of subatomic particles called neutrons,
which split enough atoms fast enough to trigger an atomic
explosion.
In 1945, an atomic bomb incinerated Hiroshima with an explosive
force of 14,000 tons of TNT. By contrast, a subcritical explosion
might equal 10 to 20 tons of TNT, the nuclear version of a wet
firecracker.
One possible explanation, Lay said, is that the Indians and
Pakistanis might have detonated some bombs simultaneously. This
might have made it difficult for Western seismologists to assess
the true magnitude of individual blasts.
Another possibility is that the Indians and Pakistanis may have
deliberately conducted subcritical blasts to test parts of nuclear
devices, rather than full-fledged bombs.
However, Lay said, it would be hard to reconcile this with the
fact that India and Pakistan have referred to all the blasts as
nuclear explosions.
Other U.S. officials and test-monitoring experts confirmed that
seismographs failed to detect proof that all 11 blasts occurred as
claimed.
Cochran recalled seeing a photo of a surface crater formed by
one of India's explosions. The crater looked unusually small for
something allegedly generated by a nuclear blast of the advertised
size, he said.
Cochran said certainly one possibility is that Indian and
Pakistani officials overstated the size of the blasts. Another
possibility is that some tests were conducted in geological terrain
that might have muffled the blasts.
The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
Saturday, June 6 and thereafter. For questions about stories,
contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818) 713-3701.
In 1989 in Canterbury, England, the world's leading experts on
frogs and other amphibians gathered for their first ever world
congress.
In the lobby, in the bar and in chance encounters in the hall,
the experts swapped frog stories. At some point they realized that
they were all seeing the same problem: Their frogs and toads were
dying not just in disturbed habitats, but in the most pristine
nature preserves from brown toads in Yosemite National Park to
golden toads in Costa Rica.
Today the case of the dying frogs is well documented, but what's
interesting is that no one still knows exactly why they are dying.
So conservationists are asking: Are the frogs the canaries in our
coal mine? Miners used to take canaries underground with them; if
the canary died, that would indicate the presence of deadly but
odorless carbon monoxide and warn miners to flee. Are the frogs
sounding such an alarm?
Is it something mankind is doing, and if so, is it something
that will eventually threaten mankind? Is it the increase in
ultraviolet light from holes in the ozone that is reducing the
frogs' immunity to viruses, parasites and fungi? Is it chemicals
and pesticides in the atmosphere? Is it rising temperatures?
These questions were worrying enough for the National Science
Foundation to bring together in Washington last week a group of top
environmental scientists to swap research on what might be killing
the frogs.
Worse, this loss of biodiversity is happening just as
life-science companies are making real breakthroughs in their
ability to collect plants and animals from highly biodiverse
environments and screen them for useful genes that can be isolated
from that plant or animal and then used for medical cures or to
stimulate agriculture.
For instance, it's genes from the rosy periwinkle, a flowering
plant from Madagascar, that are now used to treat childhood
leukemia and Hodgkin's disease. To the extent that we are losing
biodiversity through extinctions, we are shrinking this natural
storehouse of lifesaving genes, and we will never have access to
them again.
It also calls into question the distinction too often made
between home and away, between protected areas and nonprotected
areas. Home is where you keep clean, and away is where you pollute.
But maybe the frogs from Canada and Costa Rica, Yosemite and
Australia are telling us that this distinction isn't valid anymore.
Maybe they're telling us that home is home and away is home, and if
you pollute one you pollute the other. Maybe they're telling us
about the limits of our knowledge and warning us to do something
about the silent species we are losing through development and
deforestation before it's too late. 
PARIS They eat clay, drink clay, sleep clay, think clay.
According to them, they were born with their sneakers covered with
the stuff and have been sliding around on it since. For them, it's
terra firma.
So somehow it seems only appropriate that Carlos Moya and Alex
Corretja, a couple of Spaniards who have lately been knocking on
the door of Grand Slam and top 10 respectability, have landed in
the final of the French Open.
This Grand Slam tournament may be in France, which moaned Friday
when the Paris native, Cedric Pioline, disintegrated in straight
sets in his steamy afternoon semifinal against Corretja, but this
year the men's final belongs to Spain. Just as it did in 1994 when
its then-defending champion Sergi Bruguera defeated Alberto
Berasetegui.
Pioline called it a bit of a puzzle that, although France boasts
the only Grand Slam tournament played on red clay, Spain boasts the
only genuine bumper crop of red clay artists. Spain sent 19 men to
this tournament, five of them seeded.
The 21-year-old Moya, who first showed up on the Grand Slam
radar when he took a sleeper run to the 1997 Australian Open final,
defeated his training and dining companion, the 15th-seeded Felix
Mantilla, 5-7, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2, Friday to achieve his first French
Open final. Unlike his experience in Australia, Moya had been
fixated not only on reaching, but winning, this final even before
he arrived in Paris with a Monte Carlo title for ballast.
But so does his countryman, the 14th-seeded Alex Corretja, the
unassuming baseliner who gained his Grand Slam notoriety with a
Kafkaesque experience at the 1996 U.S. Open, where he
double-faulted at match point of his five-set quarterfinal against
a reeling, choking and nauseated Pete Sampras.
After 4 hours 9 minutes, Sampras soldiered on and later claimed
that year's championship. Apparently a glutton for punishment,
Corretja set a Grand Slam longevity record with his
5-hour-31-minute marathon with Hernan Gumy here in the third round.
This time the resilient Spaniard produced an 11-9 fifth-set,
tie-breaker decision.
Like the taller, more nimble Moya, the 24-year-old Corretja has
been concentrating on developing his all-court skills, especially a
serviceable volley, and Friday he used every square inch of the
center court as he dismissed the exhausted Pioline, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.
The 17th-ranked, soon-to-be 29-year-old Frenchman had played a
trio of five-setters en route to his first Roland Garros semifinal.
Friday, he could barely get his serve across the net, much less
create the flamboyant volleys necessary to detour Corretja's
passing shots.
The 12th-seeded Moya, the highest seeded man left in the
tournament, had the more treacherous trip to the final. He
inherited the responsibility of eliminating third-seeded Marcelo
Rios, the Chilean who had been favored to win his first Slam here
as well as re-acquire the No. 1 ranking, in the quarterfinal round.
Moya's ability to get that job done steeled him for this one:
friend or not, Corretja must be dealt with.
For the first time since Wimbledon 1884, two sisters met in a
Grand Slam final when Venus and Serena Williams squared off in the
mixed doubles final with their respective partners, New Jersey's
Justin Gimelstob and Argentina's Luis Lobo.
The foreign minister, Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf, at a news
conference at the United Nations, angrily rejected Butler's
conclusions, presented to the Security Council this week, that Iraq
was still withholding critical material and information on
biological, chemical and missile systems.
He dismissed as temporary and insufficient the oil-for-food
program, under which Iraq can now sell up to $5 billion in oil
every six months to pay for civilian goods. He said conditions were
continuing to worsen and more children were dying.
But in Baghdad on Thursday, a spokesman for the program, Eric
Falt, said a recent World Health Organization survey of Iraq had
found attendance at health clinics rising across the country, with
50 percent of patients interviewed saying they were getting the
full treatments prescribed, after suffering shortages of medicine.
The oil-for-food administrator in Iraq, Denis Halliday,
announced recently that he would be allocating money to improve
Iraq's run-down schools. Electricity systems and agriculture are
also getting larger shares of equipment and money with an increase
in the amount of oil allowed to be sold. The program was expanded
early this year by the Security Council, under pressure to do more
to relieve the hardships of Iraqis. 
In a commencement address at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Clinton also defended a law now under attack by the
telecommunications industry that would provide reduced costs to
poor schools and libraries.
In his address to MIT's 2,400 graduates, Clinton challenged
states to make technology literacy a requirement for students to
graduate from middle school. He pledged to provide $180 million
over three years, starting in 2000, to train a team of teachers who
in turn would help train other teachers.
The president noted the high-technology industries already
employ more people than the auto industry did at its height in the
1950s. Yet, Clinton said rich schools are three times more likely
to have Internet access than poor schools, and white students are
more than twice as likely as black students to have a computer in
their homes.
There were reports that the FCC is considering suspending the
E-rate program, but an administration official said the White House
had no knowledge of any such move.
The telecommunications companies agreed in 1996 to provide the
low-cost service in return for the Federal Communications
Commission lowering the local access fees long-distance companies
pay to local telephone companies. The lowered access fees were to
save long-distance companies $2.6 billion over 11 months while the
discount to schools and libraries was to cost $2 billion.
Joe Lockhart, a White House spokesman, said the industry
previously agreed to provide the service. He maintained there was
no reason to pass along the surcharge costs to customers.
Clinton also called for large increases in the budgets of the
National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health
for long-term information and communications research. He cited the
discovery this week in Japan that subatomic particles called
neutrinos have mass, a key to the workings of the universe.
Clinton shared commencement duties with Dr. David Ho, who
discovered the drug combination treatment to control AIDS. Ho
accepted MIT's invitation to speak at its commencement last
February but the White House, searching for a venue for Clinton to
speak on the Information revolution, called last month asking to be
included.
After his address, the president had lunch with Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., and then joined the first lady to mark the
opening of the Thoreau Institute. Don Henley, former drummer for
the band The Eagles, created the institute and the Walden Woods
Project to preserve the legacy of Henry David Thoreau. XXXX END OF STORY 
SAN FRANCISCO Some habits are hard to break. From the late
1960s to the early 1990s, the Grateful Dead were on the road almost
every year, playing down-home improvisational rock for twirling,
tie-dyed Dead Heads.
Three years after the death of Jerry Garcia, his fellow members
of the Grateful Dead are back together as the core of a new band,
the Other Ones, that sets out to resurrect and extend the Dead's
legacy.
The band made a triumphant hometown debut in San Francisco on
Thursday night at the Warfield Theater for a sold-out house of
2,400 people who arrived with loyal but guarded expectations and
left the concert jubilant.
The Other Ones include Hart, Bob Weir on guitar and Phil Lesh on
bass, Dead members since the 1960s, and Bruce Hornsby on keyboards,
who toured with the Dead in the 1990s. Mark Karan and Steve Kimock
on guitars, Dave Ellis on saxophones and John Molo on drums
complete the new band. Drummer Bill Kreutzmann, the other surviving
founder of the Dead, has retired.
This summer, the new band is to headline the third Furthur
Festival, an annual package tour of Dead-related bands. It goes to
the Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., on June 29
and the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y., on June 30. Hart said
the Other Ones had made no plans beyond the summer.
For their debut, the Other Ones had two things that the Grateful
Dead did not: nearly a month of daily rehearsals (including a
change of guitarist in the last week) and a set list that was
chosen before the band appeared onstage. But like the Dead, the
Other Ones rely on the chemistry of the moment.
The Dead brought the security of American roots music country,
blues, Appalachian music, rhythm-and-blues, even touches of Latin
rhythm to psychedelic wanderings; they made good-timey excursions
out of songs haunted by death and uncertainty. The two sets by the
Other Ones became both a reminder of what the Dead accomplished and
a glimpse of new prospects.
In more than three hours of music, the Other Ones celebrated the
Dead with the Dead's own limber, open-ended curiosity, bolstered by
the kind of thorough practice and rejuvenated energy that the
latter-day Dead had lost.
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions of
Saturday, June 6, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please
call Tina May at (206) 448-8355.
BABBIT-TROUT (Ovando, Mont.) Bull trout in four Pacific
Northwest states were listed as threatened under the Endangered
Species Act Friday, extending federal protection to the fish and
the waters where they live.
JUDGE-PANEL (Undated) Sens. Patty Murray and Slade Gorton name a
bipartisan panel to screen candidates to succeed U.S. District
Judge William L. Dwyer, who is retiring after a decade at the
vortex major Northwest social, environmental and political issues.
Gorton says, meanwhile, that he believes the GOP-run Senate will
fill all four vacancies on the federal bench in Seattle by the time
Congress adjourns at the end of September. Although of opposite
parties and different political faiths, the state's two senators
voice pride at their cooperation on what has been a contentious
issue. Gorton is waiting for the White House to say it is ready to
send up the name of Barbara Durham to the 9th Circuit before he
moves floor action on long-delayed Clinton appointee William
Fletcher.
FIERZE, Albania The rusted hulk of a ferry, its bilge pumps
spewing water into the emerald green Drinit River and its diesel
engine rattling, has become for hundreds of young men the last leg
on a journey to war.
On the upper decks small knots of ethnic Albanians, some of the
600,000 Albanians in Germany and Switzerland, squatted and
whispered among themselves.
Six bearded Islamic militants with white skullcaps stood near
the railing with thousand-mile stares that seemed to inhibit the
conversation around them. The milling groups and hushed tones gave
the boat, which shuttles each day the two hours between Koman and
Fierze, the aura of a troop ship heading into battle.
The men have left behind families, jobs, however menial, and
peace to fight for a separate state with the Kosovo Liberation Army
against the Serbian military.
Many speak German better than they do Albanian and know little
of their homeland other than the idealized visions imparted to them
by their refugee parents in cramped apartments in Munich or Zurich.
Most are motivated by a romantic fervor that must make up for an
appalling lack of military preparation.
The location of the training camps in the lawless backlands of
northern Albania has become the focus of intense interest. The
Albanian government, which since the collapse of its central
administration last year has little influence here, says the camps
do not exist.
None of the men interviewed, even those who said they had been
trained and were about to head over the mountains into Kosovo, were
willing to say where the training took place.
The ubiquitous presence of men in combat boots and black fatigue
pants in the border towns of Tropoje and Bajram Curri seems to
suggest that the camps are inside Albania along the frontier with
Serbia.
The counterinsurgency campaign begun by the Serbs in March to
wipe out the rebels in the central Drenica region in Kosovo
Province set off the rush to fight by the young Albanians in the
diaspora.
Gruesome pictures of some of the 80 people killed in the Serbian
sweep in March, mostly women, children and the elderly, were widely
disseminated by the ethnic Albanian leadership. Exile groups put
the grisly photos on the Internet.
A 24-year-old university student, who gave his nom de guerre as
Gjon and who was born and has lived all his life in Germany, sat
with six friends in a small coffee shop in downtown Bajram Curri.
He and the other volunteers will cross the border in a day or two.
They will travel into an area where the Serbian military has been
pounding villages with heavy artillery for a week, and where
streams of refugees are fleeing into Albania.
Western observers say as many as 40,000 people could be
displaced from their homes by the attack, which is intended, they
said, to create a free-fire zone along the length of the border
with Albania.
The Serbs apparently hope that the zone, emptied of civilians,
will be a buffer to halt the smuggling of weapons and supplies from
Albania to the rebels fighting in the province, these officials
said.
The specter of Bosnia, where 200,000 people were killed and
hundreds of thousands of Muslims and ethnic Croats expelled from
their homes by the Serbs, weighs heavily on the volunteers. All
said Kosovo, where 90 percent of the 2 million people are ethnic
Albanian, would be emptied of all ethnic Albanians if Belgrade is
permitted to continue its military operations.
Those who arrive from Europe are confronted with crushing
poverty. The dusty towns in northern Albania often lack running
water and regular electricity. There is often no local authority,
other than a warlord and his group of armed henchmen. Many said
they were still trying to adjust to the chaos, poverty and
isolation.
AUSTIN, Texas A sharply divided Texas Supreme Court held
Friday that auto manufacturers can be held liable even if their
safety designs meet minimum standards for seat belts set by the
federal government.
The 5-4 ruling stems from a 1989 auto accident in which an
18-year-old man was left paralyzed from the chest down after being
thrown through the sunroof of a car that was not equipped with lap
seat belts.
Alvarado was a front seat passenger in a 1988 Hyundai Excel that
spun out of control on a rain-slickened roadway and rolled over.
The car was equipped with automatic shoulder belts, which engaged
when the doors closed, but the car did not have lap belts an
option permissible under minimum federal standards at the time,
according to court documents.
The case represents a rare victory for plaintiffs in the
conservative Texas Supreme Court, which is dominated by
Republicans.
The main question before the court was whether the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act which sets safety standards
that vehicle manufacturers must meet precludes consumers from
suing a manufacturer for damages sustained in a seat restraint
system that does not include lap belts.
She was joined by justices Raul Gonzalez, the only other
Democrat on the bench, and Republican justices Greg Abbott, James
Baker and Deborah Hankinson.
Lawyers for the auto manufacturer did not return calls from the
Houston Chronicle. But Donna Kane, spokeswoman for Hyundai Motor
America, told The Associated Press that lawyers had not yet seen
the opinion and could not comment on it.
Brown, the lawyer for Alvarados, said the ruling clears the
major roadblock her client has faced in pursuing the $18 million in
actual damages that a trial jury awarded him in 1991. Hyundai
appealed the jury award, but a San Antonio appeals court has
withheld ruling to allow the Supreme Court time to decide whether
Alvarados should have been barred from seeking damages in the first
place, Brown said.
She added that the Texas Supreme Court decision could lead
courts in other parts of the country to start holding auto
manufacturers liable for safety restraint systems that have not
adequately protected vehicle occupants. If it didn't have impact
beyond Texas, she said, Hyundai would not have gone to the lengths
it did to fight the case.
MOSCOW By the time the first copies of Alexander
Solzhenitsyn's latest book landed at a Moscow bookstore on
Thursday, its arrival had been heralded far and wide. Excerpts were
published in half a dozen newspapers, and there were announcements
on radio and television just the kind of fanfare that might be
expected for a work by the great Soviet dissident, Nobel Prize
winner and tireless defender of Russia's battered soul.
And yet the phones were ringing all morning on Thursday at the
Russian Way bookstore a tidy, tiny haven of classical literature
on a street filled with features of the new Russia: beauty salons,
garish cafes, investment banks, currency-exchange booths.
Solzhenitsyn's loyal readers, many of whom share his alienation
from the culture around them, were calling in to ask when they
could come by and pick up their copies.
Solzhenitsyn, who rarely gives interviews, has not personally
promoted the book, which is currently available only in Russian.
Since his return in November 1994 after a 20-year exile, mainly
in Vermont, Solzhenitsyn has become one of the paradoxes of the new
Russia. Freed from the harsh Soviet censorship that made mere
possession of his books a criminal act, Solzhenitsyn more than
any other Russian writer or thinker has had ample opportunity to
address his public.
He was host of a talk show on national television. He has
traveled the country, lecturing and listening to what people have
to say. His works have been published not only in select literary
journals but in Argumenti i Fakty, Russia's most popular newspaper,
with a readership of 3.2 million.
The new book is a rambling collection of Solzhenitsyn's thoughts
and impressions about what he has seen and heard here over the last
four years. The picture he paints is relentlessly grim: a country
brought to its knees by the avarice and cowardice of its ruling
elite and by the West in particular the United States which has
wasted no time in taking advantage of Russia's weakness.
Many Russians share Solzhenitsyn's bitterness, and according to
Medvedev, that may be one of the reasons so few are ready to hear
him out.
But for Vera Moseyeva, a retired clerk who remembers the first
book by Solzhenitsyn that she ever laid her hands on (it was almost
in tatters by the time it had been carefully and secretly passed to
her), it does not matter what he writes.
WASHINGTON Attorney General Janet Reno on Friday removed the
last legal obstacle to the full operation of Oregon's landmark
assisted suicide law, declaring that doctors who use the law to
prescribe lethal drugs to terminally-ill patients will not be
prosecuted.
In her decision Friday, Reno overruled an opinion last November
by Thomas Constantine, the administrator of the Drug Enforcement
Administration, an agency of the Justice Department. The DEA had
warned that the government would impose severe sanctions on any
doctor who writes a prescription for lethal doses of medicine for a
patient.
Constantine, who issued his threat after being pressed to
consider the Oregon law by two senior conservative members of
Congress, had said that using drugs for suicide was not a
legitimate medical use under the federal drug laws.
In reversing that position Friday, Reno said that a Justice
Department study concluded that the drug laws were intended to
block illegal trafficking in drugs and did not cover situations
like the Oregon suicide law.
It remains unclear whether her ruling will increase the number
of people who seek to use the Oregon law because doctors might now
be less inhibited to help people end their lives.
Dr. Charles Hoffman, the former president of the state medical
society, had complained that Constantine's threat had chilled many
doctors from prescribing lethal drugs to patients eligible under
the law.
Only three people are reported to have used the law since it
survived a series of other legal challenges last fall.
The law was written to be used only by Oregon residents in order
to prevent the state from becoming a mecca for people seeking
medical help in ending their lives. Other states have rejected such
laws and the next test may come in Michigan, where proponents are
preparing an initiative to be put on the ballot.
In her ruling, Reno said there was no evidence that Congress
meant for the DEA to have the novel role of resolving the profound
moral and ethical questions involved in the issue. In her statement
she noted that President Clinton remains opposed to
physician-assisted suicide and signed a law prohibiting the use of
federal funds for any such procedure.
Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J., one of Congress' most prominent
abortion foes, said Friday he is confident that there will be a
legislative attempt to undo Reno's ruling. Congressional aides said
that some of the efforts will be similar to those used to deter
abortions, like requiring waiting periods or mandatory counseling.
The ruling was greeted warmly not only by supporters of the
referendum but by some Oregonians who opposed the measure but felt
angered that politicians and agency administrators in Washington
had sought to undo the results of the election.
The initial referendum was approved by a 51-49 margin in 1994
but was held up by legal challenges for three years.
Opponents mounted an effort last fall to rescind the original
vote but were rebuffed by a large margin in a second statewide
referendum. It has been a widely held belief in Oregon that the
margin was not so much an indication that people approved of
physician-assisted suicide but rather a reflection of voters'
resentment that the opponents did not accept the will of the
electorate the first time.
Constantine was pressed to declare the law inoperative by Sen.
Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
and Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee. Hatch on Friday criticized Reno's decision in a
statement, saying she had misunderstood the federal drug laws.
The issue has prompted politicians like Hatch and Hyde, who have
long decried federal intervention and promoted states rights, to
argue for Washington to intervene. The Supreme Court has said that
while there is no constitutional right to assisted suicide, states
are free to create their own laws on the issue.
Supporters of the law Friday predicted that Reno's ruling will
not greatly increase the number of people in Oregon who will commit
suicide with a doctor's help. State officials have said they will
release a report as soon as they have recorded 10 suicides and they
have not yet done so. Barbara Combs Lee, who wrote the proposal in
the referendum, said that news reports attributing information to
family and friends account for only three suicides so far.
The state's Death with Dignity Act gives terminally-ill adults
the right to request a lethal dose of prescription drugs if the
patient is of sound mind and judged by two doctors to have less
than six months to live.
Interpretation: Perhaps the strongest passages in the Bible
referring to homosexuality. However, advocates of a more lenient
view of homosexuality in the church say the condemnation of
male-male sexual relations must be taken in the context of
Leviticus' emphasis on keeping certain practices to preserve Jewish
identity. Other laws in Leviticus forbid eating shellfish and
wearing mixed fabric.
Another group of Christians views religious-based efforts to
make gay people straight as not only impossible, but cruel. They
insist there is no such thing as an ex-gay person.
Vaiden has lived on both sides of the issue. He tried celibacy.
He tried marriage. He tried God. But his homosexual desires
persisted. He eventually divorced his wife and for the past 15
years has been living with a man in Stone Mountain. His partner,
Lowrey Fleming, whom he met in a Bible study class, helped Vaiden
raise his two sons, now adults in their early 20s.
Vaiden says he is comfortable with his sexual orientation today.
But many Christians remain certain that practicing homosexuality is
a sin. The issue has split the Christian community into two camps.
Founded in 1976, Exodus has 88 chapters in the United States and
nine international chapters in places as far apart as Singapore and
the United Kingdom.
Christians who embrace their gayness also cite Scripture. And
their contention that homosexuality isn't something that can be
changed has in recent years been reinforced by many in the
scientific and psychological communities.
Gays and ex-gays differ on basic assumptions about
homosexuality. Most Christians who believe God can change a
person's sexual orientation think that homosexuality is not inborn,
but caused by a person's environment. They often cite an inadequate
relationship between children and parents as the spark for
homosexuality.
Many gay Christians who laim they have been healed are
unwilling to say they no longer are attracted to members of the
same sex. They describe healing as a process, not an overnight
change. Temptation remains.
Richard Morton is a member of Living Stones, an Atlanta-based
ministry affiliated with Exodus International. Morton, 40, a
minister's son from Indiana, joined Living Stones after his
marriage failed because of his homosexuality. He lost his wife and
male lover in the same year.
Morton said Living Stones uses a tough-love approach. Members
are required to meet each week, stay in constant touch with a
sponsor, and are forbidden to buy pornography.
Critics of the ex-gay movement believe Morton's quest will
ultimately fail. They scoff at the idea that homosexuality can be
explained by a deficient relationship between a child and a parent.
Vaiden, for example, said he got along great with his father and
mother. Both supported him when he left his wife, although they
didn't understand his decision.
Yet many Christians who believe that God can deliver people from
homosexuality think the argument that people are born gay is
irrelevant.
Dallas points out that studies suggesting biological roots for
homosexuality are small in sample size and far from proven, a point
Haldeman concedes.
Of much greater importance, Dallas adds, is the fact that
Christians who grapple with homosexual desires must still obey
Scripture, which forbids homosexuality.
Vaiden has long since given up trying to change his sexual
orientation. That's not to say he didn't struggle to remain with
his wife and attempt to be straight.
Vaiden thought he could cure his homosexuality through prayer
and Scripture. But such efforts proved futile. He tried to balance
his sexual desires with his need to take care of his wife and
family.
It all became too much. Vaiden divorced. A year later he and
Fleming began living together, a partnership that has lasted for 15
years.
Despite Asian tremors, stock market jitters and fears that
America is running out of workers, the economy is still booming. In
May, the Labor Department reported on Friday, employers added
nearly 300,000 new jobs, unemployment held steady at an almost
unbelievably low 4.3 percent the lowest rate in 28 years and
pay continued to rise.
Investors focused on the optimistic side, reasoning that such a
show of economic strength bodes well for corporate profits. The
stock market, which had been faltering lately, surged in a powerful
rally that pushed the Dow Jones average up nearly 2 percent, its
best gain in four months.
The May jobs figures are only the latest evidence that the
economy remains far more robust than most experts expected.
Spending on everything from new homes and cars to business
equipment has been soaring in recent weeks.
Indeed, the surge in hiring surprised economists who were
expecting the unemployment rate to tick up in May and payrolls to
only rise modestly. What's more, the Labor Department reported that
the job market was stronger in March and April than previously
reported.
The best labor market since the go-go 1960s is a boon for most
Americans who are now enjoying signing bonuses, more frequent
raises and, not least, the luxury of choice. The quit rate the
best measure of how confident workers are that they trade their old
job for a better one has been hovering close its highest level
since the beginning the economic expansion seven years ago.
Although a tight labor market also increases the possibility
that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to cool the
economy down, wage inflation is hardly surging. Hourly earnings are
now 4.3 percent above their year-ago level. After rising 5 cents in
April, earnings edged up another 4 cents to $12.73.
The sole weak spot in the job market is in industry. Asia's
problems have been hitting American exporters hard since the
beginning of the year, contributing to a big buildup in inventories
and production cutbacks.
As a result, manufacturers have started to reign in headcounts.
Factory payrolls, which grew by more than more than 300,000 in past
two years, shrank for the second month in a row by 26,000.
Indeed, all of the hiring 332,000 jobs last month was by the
dominant service sector which includes everything from Wall Street
and shopping malls to trucking and management consulting firms.
What's fueling the demand for workers, including, increasingly,
the young, inexperienced, and least educated, isn't much of a
mystery: American businesses and households are on a spending spree
that shows few signs of abating and promises to keep the job market
tight for the foreseeable future. Consumers are spending more
freely than ever, as jammed parking lots at the nation's malls and
the latest reports from merchants confirm.
Just this week, Detroit automakers reported May was their best
sales month in a dozen years. On Thursday, big retailers reported a
7.1 percent in May sales following a 10.2 percent gain in April,
the best monthly increase in 10 years.
Americans are also buying houses. April home sales were the
strongest in history. And furniture, hardware, and other items for
the family home are moving briskly. The 9,000-job drop in
construction in May likely reflects the past few months of unusual
weather patterns and comes after builders hired 204,000 workers
between October and April.
There's no sign that households are tapped out. Partly because
of that hot job market, household income is swelling at a rate
that's highly unusual by historical standards, nearly 5 percent a
year. With inflation running close to 1 percent, if that, `a dollar
is worth a dollar' these days.
The other spur to spending is coming from the stock market,
which has quadrupled in value over the last eight years. Half of
all Americans have some stake in the market, and they're the ones
with most of the disposable income. An economic rule of thumb holds
that consumers spend approximately 3 percent of their wealth gains.
That rule seems to be holding now. The personal savings rate has
declined from 6.5 percent to 3.5 percent in the past five years;
that's an indirect measure of the wealth effect $200-plus billion
in extra spending.
Businesses are also spending like there's no tomorrow. Spending
on new equipment and structures has been booming almost since the
beginning of the expansion and shows no signs of slowing.
One reason for all the investment is that high stock prices and
low interest rates make it more affordable.. Equipment orders
suggest that investment spending, while it may have slowed a tad
from its 27 percent annual rate in the first quarter, is still
rising at a double digit rate.
But while there's no evidence yet that domestic demand is
slowing, some drags on growth are already visible. The trade
deficit which shaved 1.5 percentage points off the economic
growth rate in the first quarter is expected to widen from the
after effects of the Asia crisis, which has diminished demand for
American products in Asia and increased the amount of Asian-made
goods bound for the United States.
The glowing newlyweds looked as if they had just stepped out of
a Hallmark greeting card.
Only a week earlier they were joined in a church. Now they were
basking in each other's presence, flipping through their wedding
album and making plans for their honeymoon in Greece. It was a
typical snapshot of post-wedding bliss except for one unusual
detail:
Michael Calvert and Bryan Keever were joined during a commitment
ceremony in the Christ Covenant Metropolitan Community Church near
downtown Decatur, Georgia. The MCC is a congregation founded by and
for homosexuals. Calvert, an MCC deacon, could not envision
worshipping or marrying anywhere else.
Eleven o'clock Sunday morning may be the most segregated hour in
America, but a new kind of church division is now taking place a
growing separation between the straight and homosexual religious
communities. Gays and lesbians in metro Atlanta, no longer willing
to wait for mainstream churches to embrace them, have in recent
years created their own religious groups.
The Southern Voice, a weekly catering mostly to the city's gay
community, lists at least 40 places of worship in the Atlanta area
that welcome gays and lesbians. A few are part of mainstream
denominations, defiantly ignoring church doctrine. But most were
specifically created for homosexuals.
If mainline churches continue to reject the inclusion of
homosexuals, leaders of gay places of worship say, their
congregations will prosper. According to MCC officials, they have
one of the fastest-growing Christian denominations in the world.
Since its founding in Los Angeles in 1968, MCC has grown to about
300 churches in 17 countries. MCC's worldwide membership, officials
report, is now at 32,000.
The Metropolitan Community Church was founded by Troy Perry, a
minister defrocked by his Pentecostal church for homosexuality.
After recovering from a suicide attempt, Perry said he received a
call from God to start a church that affirmed gays and all other
outcasts.
Still, don't expect any homosexual megachurches in Atlanta or
elsewhere. Most gay places of worship have comparatively small
memberships. The MCC congregation that Calvert and Keever attend
has about 220 members. The Unity Fellowship Church, which is
predominantly black and open to gays, has about 25 members.
Congregation Bet Haverim has about 165 members.
Ironically, though many homosexuals feel uncomfortable in
mainstream places of worship, they insist on retaining the
trappings of such traditional faith communities.
The Metropolitan Community Church in Decatur, for example, looks
as if it could have been lifted from a Norman Rockwell painting:
white steeple, stained-glass windows and an orange juice stand out
front. The MCC worship style includes the traditional sacraments of
baptism and Communion.
When it comes to their theology on sexuality, though, homosexual
places of worship differ sharply from the mainstream. MCC teaches
that biblical passages condemning homosexuality have been
misinterpreted. The sin of Sodom, for example, was inhospitality,
not homosexuality, the denomination holds.
The Rev. Glenna Shepherd, the MCC pastor who conducted the
Calvert-Keever commitment ceremony, said she thinks that most
churches will accept homosexuals in the future.
Shepherd, a lesbian, said mainstream churches' opposition to
same-sex marriages places gays who want to be faithful to one
partner in a no-win situation.
Calvert, however, said his allegiance to MCC will last. It is
where he says he found God and love.
In the spring of 1990, the Rev. Mike Cordle and his wife walked
past St. Mark United Methodist Church in Atlanta on their way to
see a play at the Fox Theatre.
Cordle was an up-and-comer in the North Georgia Conference of
the United Methodist Church senior pastor at St. Andrew United
Methodist Church in Cobb County, where the 1,200 members had
overpledged the annual budget and were planning a new building to
accommodate their rapid growth.
Perhaps no church in Georgia and few in the United States has seen a more dramatic turnaround because of welcoming gays and
lesbians than the old Gothic church on Peachtree Street.
Looking back, Cordle sees the hand of providence in the timing
of his first Sunday at the church. After preaching to about 90 of
its 200 mostly elderly members, he and his family stepped outside
to see a parade flowing down Peachtree Street. He joked that the
city had staged it to welcome him. It was his first Gay Pride
parade.
During the next year, Cordle worked hard and picked up eight new
members, but because of difficulty meeting denominational
obligations and utility bills, the congregation froze his salary.
And on the first anniversary of his arrival at the church, Cordle
and his family went outside to watch the Gay Pride parade again.
To settle the dispute, Cordle took the idea to the church lay
council, thinking surely the members would reject the proposal.
They didn't.
On his second anniversary at the church, when the Gay Pride
parade came by St. Mark, Cordle, his wife and several members of
the church passed out 50,000 donated leaflets about the church,
along with cups of water, to participants.
The next Sunday, about half a dozen curious gays and lesbians
came to services. They told others about their experience, and more
people came.
The church began structuring ministries to meet the needs of its
new members: AIDS-related services, the Genesis group for men
struggling with their sexual orientation, the Rainbow Sunday School
Class.
And gay and lesbian members began to become integrated into
other groups and classes, to volunteer throughout the church's
program, and to bring more friends.
A few of the older members left, but many more new members
joined. Some were young heterosexuals who wanted their children to
be part of a diverse community.
In March, the church took in its 1,000th member. Its annual
budget is more than $500,000 five times as much as when Cordle
became minister. The congregation has paid off all but $17,000 of
the $1 million cost of renovating the elegant old sanctuary.
Attendance averages more than 800 each Sunday in two services.
A few openly gay and lesbian candidates for the ministry have
found churches willing to defy popular practice. Some were ordained
before they discovered their homosexuality. But for most gay
would-be clergy, the position of the churches leaves several
choices hide their sexuality, accept a lifetime of celibacy,
transfer to the Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community
Churches or another gay-friendly body, or wait for a change in
denominational policy.
Here is a look at four gay metro Atlantans, two who long for
ordination and two who have succeeded.
Sitting at a wrought-iron table in the courtyard of Trinity
Presbyterian Church on a sunny February day, Chris Glaser looked
dejected. Glaser, who is openly gay, had just watched the
Presbytery of Greater Atlanta vote down a proposal that would have
brought him closer to what he believes is his lifelong calling the Christian ministry.
He moved to Atlanta in May 1993, when his partner, Mark King,
took a job at AID Atlanta. The two joined Ormewood Park
Presbyterian Church and had their relationship blessed in a
ceremony performed by the church's former minister. They remain
active church members, but Glaser said he identifies himself less
strongly as a Presbyterian than in the past.
Ever since his teen years, Harry Knox, 37, has wanted to be a
United Methodist minister. As a student at Emory University's
Candler School of Theology, he served as pastor of a tiny church
where two families had gay sons. Through the process of counseling
them, he says, he realized he could not be an effective minister
unless he came to terms with his own sexuality.
Copeland grew up in Snyder Memorial Baptist Church in
Fayetteville, N.C., and felt called to the ministry from age 16. By
his senior year at Wake Forest University, he was state president
of the Baptist Student Union, the Southern Baptist Convention's
college campus ministry. By that year he also knew he was gay.
He enrolled in Andover Newton Theological School in
Massachusetts, affiliated with the American Baptist Churches U.S.A.
and the United Church of Christ, but left because he felt compelled
to choose between being a minister and being gay.
After a year working in campus ministry, he entered the law and
theology program at Emory University(Ga.) intending to work in
social justice. In Atlanta, he joined Oakhurst Baptist Church, a
congregation affiliated with both the American Baptist Churches and
the Southern Baptist Convention. Two years later, he felt he could
no longer deny the call he felt to be a minister.
Kanour, 44, serves as assistant to the rector at St.
Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in DeKalb County. In August 1997,
when she and her partner of three years were introduced, the
congregation gave them a standing ovation.
A native of Virginia, she was raised a Southern Baptist and
later became a Roman Catholic. She graduated from Oregon State
University, spent four years in the Marine Corps and then earned a
divinity degree from Yale University.
When her father died soon after she left the convent, she
returned home to Norfolk and found work as parish administrator at
Good Shepherd Episcopal Church. There, she decided she wanted to be
ordained a priest.
Since she was living in Atlanta three years later when she
completed preparation, Atlanta's Bishop Frank K. Allan ordained her
in 1991 on behalf of the bishop of southern Virginia.
Kanour spent a year in clinical pastoral education at Northside
Hospital, worked four years as a chaplain at Grady Memorial
Hospital's hospice, and became interim vicar at Emmaus House, a
south Atlanta
When Allan accepted her official transfer to the diocese last
year so that she could serve in a parish, Kanour became the first
openly gay person received for official clergy status in the
diocese.
At St. Bartholomew's, a church known for its wide range of
community ministries, she is assistant to the rector for missions
and evangelism. She finds the ministry exhilarating.
McCaysville, Ga.--Hmmm. The question fascinates: Why do we feel
the need to garden in the mountains when nature does such a good
job without our help?
Over and over again, I've seen them in places throughout the
world plantings around dwellings surrounded by incomparable
scenery.
In the highlands of Puerto Rico, where stunning views of sea and
valleys and mountains take your breath away, where the most lush
vegetation and colorful flowers thrive on their own, gardens still
grow around houses everywhere.
On the Isle of Wight, most residents cannot resist planting hydrangeas are particularly popular, with lovely fall leaf color even though the woods and water can thrill forever.
On Cape Ann, Mass., too, and in Santa Fe, N.M., where natural
beauty awes and inspires, where coastal waters and arid delights
proliferate like sea grasses and sagebrush, people must put their
own stuff in the ground.
Up here in the mountains, there's a whole lot of stamping going
on.
Undeniably enchanting, the hazy blue ridges and quilted shades
of green beckon. In the woods, you get lost in the delight of more
plant species than are in some countries. Who can dispute or
resist the charms of sweet-
For my part, I'm doing all I can as fast as I can to stamp my
land immediately around the cabin.
Big Momma's garden, so named because it embraces many of the
plants my mother's mother so loved rose of Sharon, butterfly
bush, zinnia, sweet olive continues to thicken with the help of
friends. Evelyn Davenport provided bee balm and foxglove. Laura
Abernathy shared a red rose and some wintergreen, while Greg
Crawford provided Big Momma an abelia. So far, these newcomers seem
not to mind giving up their comfortable homes for my brutally new
and rocky garden.
Mickey Galloway gave me a shopping visit to his woods, where I
dug as many hemlocks and white pines as my car would haul (I need a
truck). The little trees promise to grow as big and fine as their
older siblings.
And the plantings continue. In some ways, they reflect our
effort to embrace and complement and extend nature's beauty, to
bring it right up to our own doors. To bring it home. And, yes, to
show ownership and exert control of our spaces, too.
Sometimes we do this with plants directly out of the verdant
landscape, sometimes with plants straight from the nursery (or
friends' gardens). Regardless, each plant integrates us with
nature. Each puts a green stamp on the plot that holds our home.
Ginnie Hart, a 52-year-old preacher's kid, former Bible
translator and ex-wife of an evangelical missionary, has spent much
of her life studying or teaching the Scriptures.
Today, as an openly lesbian United Methodist, Hart teaches Bible
classes, attended mostly by gays and lesbians, that focus on how
she believes the Bible has been misused against homosexuals.
Q: What is your position on the ordination of sexually active
homosexuals and the blessing of same-sex unions?
A: I do not believe there is any reason in Scripture, based on
homosexuality alone, to deny ordination. I would want to know
whether a person, gay or straight, is abusive or unfaithful. Those
are the larger questions.
And when people want to be committed to each other and make that
a public statement, I think the church ought to support them. I
believe one of the problems in the gay community is that we are not
able to make our commitments publicly or openly. It's real easy to
get out of a relationship few people know you're in.
A: It's the age-old problem of separating the body from the soul
or spirit. Historically, we've had that dichotomy in the church.
All this is a part of who I am. My sexuality, my spirituality,
everything about me is meant to be integrated. To say that it's OK
to be gay as long as you don't `do it' is like saying it's OK to be
hungry but don't eat. It's preposterous.
A: If we can't find a place in the church where we can find the
name and learn what it means to be homosexual that sexually,
emotionally and spiritually I am going to be bonded more closely to
women than to men where are we going to find it? Where are we
going to be nurtured and supported? If the church is not going to
be a place where we can learn to be soulful and holy and whole,
where are we going to learn that?
Q: The United Methodist Church and some other denominations make
a distinction between civil rights and the role in the church. They
call for equal employment rights for gays and lesbians and yet will
not ordain them or bless their unions in the church. Do you see any
conflict in these positions?
A: What we've seen is an evolution in the church's understanding
of civil rights. When you get to the point when you can say they
deserve civil rights why wouldn't you ordain them?
A: If you interpret Scripture literally take the text and what
it says ... it probably means you have a conclusion about any
subject. `Women shouldn't preach.' You can go to Scripture and find
a verse to support it. `Homosexuality is an abomination.' It's
easy. You don't have to do a lot of study. The other way to
interpret Scripture and to me the only way is to do it
historically and critically. We have to know what was going on
historically and culturally to know what the author meant and what
the first audience heard. You find a nugget of truth and apply it
today.
A: My own experience is that I had every reason in the world not
to be gay. I was a preacher's kid. I was a missionary overseas and,
with my husband, was a stateside missionary supported by friends
and churches. I knew if those people knew what I was struggling
with, then it would devastate them and devastate our ministry. I
was married and had two beautiful children. ... But my own
experience tells me this is who I am. You get to the point where
your only chance at freedom is letting it all go. Until I stopped
fighting, I could not be whole.
Even though the church was not always there for me, God was
always there for me. It's one reason it's been important for me to
stay in the church and try to educate people.
Q: What is your position on the ordination of sexually active
homosexuals and the blessing of same-sex unions?
A: My personal position and that of the church is that the
practice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching.
Sometimes the church is criticized for being closed to homosexuals.
That's not the case at all, but there's a careful distinction
between orientation and practice.
Q: So the church essentially says to homosexuals that they have
to change or remain celibate?
Q: To join the United Methodist Church, a person pledges to try
to live by its teachings. Some have suggested that practicing
homosexuals not even be admitted to membership. Would you go that
far?
A: While I don't think we would go on any witch hunt or anything
like that, we would hope that people understood the church's
position and were willing to be loyal to the church.
A: I think the church by its nature is to be open to all persons
and to offer ministry, to offer guidance and support, but the
church has the right to expect certain standards of its ministers
and its members.
Q: The United Methodist Church and some other denominations call
for equal employment rights for gays and lesbians, and yet will not
ordain them or bless their unions in the church. Do you see any
conflict in
A: The church has the right to expect a different standard, or a
higher standard, of its members. While the church would stand for
basic civil and human rights, the church retains for itself the
right to say what basic membership standards and ordination
standards are.
A: The scriptural basis, I think, is very clear. All the
references to homosexuality in the Old and New Testaments are
negative. Nowhere is the practice of homosexuality commended. On
the other side, the positive passages begin even with the story of
creation when God created male and female and blessed their union.
The Old and New Testaments are full of affirmations of marriage
between a man and woman. So, that could be called biblical
theology. ...
We also talk about tradition, how the Scripture has been
interpreted in the broad sweep of Christian history. That's been a
pretty universal understanding of God's will, that human sexuality
is God's gift, but it's to be expressed within the bounds of
marriage between a man and a woman. Then there's what's called
natural theology as well, that which is in keeping with nature.
Personally, from the reading I've done, though I'm not a scientist,
certain practices of homosexuality, particularly male
homosexuality, are a violation of the human anatomy and very high
risk. Again that would be confirmed in Paul's statement in Romans
when he calls homosexuality unnatural. ...
The global understanding of this matter, I would say, is
overwhelmingly geared to the church's traditional position. Some of
the growing churches in Asia and Africa are just amazed that we
spend this much energy on an issue they think is clearly forbidden
in the Christian tradition.
Q: Have you had friends or family members who are homosexual?
And if so, how did they affect your attitude toward homosexuality?
A: Yes. ... Their practice or disagreement with the church's
position does not change how I feel about them. Nor does my love of
them change my feeling that the church's position is legitimate and
not only scriptural, but loving. I think all of us can agree that
all persons are of sacred worth, but not all practices are
compatible with Christian teaching.
For United Methodists, the verdict in the church trial of the
Rev. Jimmy Creech was almost as divisive as the O.J. Simpson
verdict was for the nation.
Across Methodism, the Creech trial brought to a head simmering
debates about homosexuality. Creech, a pastor in the country's
second-largest Protestant denomination, was acquitted in March of
violating church law by blessing the union of two lesbians at his
Omaha, Neb., church. Eight of the 13-member, all-clergy jury found
him guilty, one short of the nine required for conviction.
More than 100 ministers who supported Creech signed a statement
vowing to continue to bless same-sex unions, while those outraged
at the verdict called for a special session of the denomination's
General Conference to deal with the aftermath.
After his bishop did not reappoint him to his Omaha church,
Creech announced that he will take a leave of absence from the
ministry and move to North Carolina. His last sermon in the Omaha
pulpit will be today.
The Methodists are just one group of many in Christendom
struggling with questions of same-sex relationships.
Presbyterians, Lutherans, Episcopalians, Catholics, Baptists and
members of the United Church of Christ have their own skirmishes.
The votes and charges at the national level have filtered down into
metro Atlanta's pews and pulpits, in some cases causing division
within churches and defection from denominations.
On a practical level, the great church debates center on two
questions: Should there be a rite for same-sex unions? And, should
sexually active gay men and lesbian women be ordained to church
office?
But on a theological level, what is at stake may be much greater
than a ceremony or a clerical position. Some leaders on both sides
of the line see themselves in a battle for the soul of the church.
The names of two movements within United Methodism describe the
attitudes of the two factions toward the church. Reconciling
Congregations are those who intentionally include gays and
lesbians, focusing on the need to bring in and nurture everyone as
a member of God's family. Transforming Congregations are those who
believe homosexuals can be changed in their orientation through
God's healing powers, or can find the courage to live a life of
celibacy in order to conform to the church's teaching.
While both sides say they see sexual expression ideally as an
expression of commitment and love, in general those who would
prohibit the blessing of same-sex unions or the ordination of
sexually active homosexuals see sex as tied to procreation and
God's plan of creation.
A statement by the Alliance of Baptists, a moderate group of
Southern and American Baptists, is echoed in reports by other
denominations, including the United Methodist Church and the
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). The statement says:
With more bishops, priests and ministers willing to defy their
denominations by blessing same-sex unions and ordaining
homosexuals, and more legislative action pending before several
bodies, there is no end in view.
NEW YORK Alfred Kazin, author, critic, teacher and New York
intellectual, died Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of
Manhattan on his 83rd birthday.
For more than 50 years Kazin wrote prolifically about two great
subjects: American literature and himself. His territory was the
Brownsville section of Brooklyn, where he grew up; the streets of
the city, which he restlessly walked as if Herman Melville, Edgar
Allan Poe and Walt Whitman were beside him, and the landscape of
American literature, which he criticized with passionate intensity.
As a critic, Kazin said writers should be understood in relation
to their culture. Unlike the New Critics, he did not engage in
minute textual analyses, and he paid less attention to style and
form than to the relationship of a literary work to its time.
WASHINGTON When Kay Bailey Hutchison first ran for the Senate,
she depended on contributions from tobacco interests to help fill
her campaign coffers.
But more recently, the Texas Republican decided to kick the
habit, joining an increasing number of lawmakers who are trying to
distance themselves from an unpopular industry.
Hutchison said she became miffed at the tobacco companies after
their executives testified before Congress that they didn't believe
their product was addictive and they weren't trying to coerce young
people into smoking.
Since 1995, the senator has not accepted tobacco contributions
and returned several donations that came anyway, according to an
analysis of Federal Election Commission campaign reports by the
Center for Responsive Politics.
In the previous two years, Hutchison took more than $55,000 from
tobacco companies and their executives to help pay for two
expensive Senate campaigns. She first ran in 1993 in a special
election to fill the seat vacated by Lloyd Bentsen and later again
in 1994 for the regular six-year term.
Gramm spokesman Larry Neal suggested that shunning tobacco
contributions was largely a public relations ploy and that the
senator considered it sufficient that he disclose the sources of
his contributions.
He has also been one of the most vocal opponents of the
anti-smoking legislation now being considered by the Senate. The
measure would substantially increase the price of cigarettes and
give the federal government broad authority to regulate tobacco
products.
However, debate has slowed considerably because of moves by
Gramm and others to attach unrelated amendments, such as
eliminating the tax burden on married couples and funding anti-drug
efforts.
Even though she has been angered at the tobacco companies'
attitudes, Hutchison has not embraced the anti-smoking measure
before the Senate, in part, because it is opposed by the industry.
The senator said she believes that proposed restrictions on
tobacco advertising included in the original bill will never come
to pass because the industry will not voluntarily comply with the
ban.
Despite increasing reluctance by some lawmakers to accept
donations, the big tobacco companies have continued to pour large
amounts into the political system.
Common Cause president Ann McBride said that the tobacco
industry can still wield influence over lawmakers through soft
money contributions. And she questioned whether lawmakers could
distance themselves from the companies unless they condemned their
parties' acceptance of the money.
Even though tobacco is not grown in Texas, 16 of the state's
30-member House delegation received a total of $57,500 in tobacco
contributions in 1997 and the first few months of 1998, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics analysis.
House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, a vocal critic of the
anti-tobacco legislation being considered by the Senate, was the
largest recipient among state lawmakers at $11,000.
Green said he accepts money from large tobacco companies that
have non-tobacco related subsidiaries that employ workers in his
district. Green cited RJR Nabisco, which has a local plant that
makes crackers, and Phillip Morris that runs a Maxwell House coffee
operation in Houston.
Republican Rep. Kevin Brady of The Woodlands hasn't decided
where he stands on the anti-smoking legislation, but he won't take
tobacco money.
Charles Black, a tobacco industry lobbyist and a top adviser in
Gramm's recent unsuccessful presidential bid, said that he has
noted that more politicians have been refusing tobacco money in
recent years.
Alfred Kazin was born on June 5, 1915, the son of Charles Kazin,
a house painter, and the former Gita Fagelman, a dressmaker, both
of whom had emigrated as youths from czarist Russia. From his
childhood in Brownsville, Kazin and his sister, Pearl, were imbued
with the immigrant, working-class values that were to sustain a
society through the Great Depression.
His entry into the world of letters began almost by accident.
Like so many of the new generation of young intellectuals in New
York City, sons and daughters of immigrants for the most part,
Kazin attended City College, honing his literary sensibilities and
opinions from the many newspapers and magazines that were published
in the city through the Depression.
Kazin spent most of the next 60 years writing. He earned his
bachelor's degree in 1935 from City College and his master's degree
in English three years later. He began writing reviews and essay
for other magazines and took a strong interest in the new writing
of the time. In 1937, Carl Van Doren, then a professor at Columbia
University, suggested that he undertake a book-length study of
modern American literature.
But the memoir established Kazin as one of the country's leading
postwar voices and commanded a growing readership drawn to its
evocative prose:
In between publication dates, Kazin earned his living writing
reviews and essays for newspapers and magazines like American
Mercury, Partisan Review, The New Yorker and Harper's Magazine. He
was literary editor of The New Republic and an associate editor of
Fortune. He also wrote countless introductions to reprint editions
of classic and more contemporary works.
Kazin was also a guest professor at universities in the United
States and abroad. He taught at Harvard, Smith, Notre Dame,
Berkeley, Cambridge, Cologne and the University of Puerto Rico, to
name only a few. He later held distinguished professorships at the
State University of New York at Stony Brook, and the City
University of New York, at Hunter College and the Graduate Center.
His colleagues included Irving Howe and Irving Kristol, Norman
Podhoretz, Lionel and Diana Trilling, William Barrett, William
Phillips, Mary McCarthy, Sidney Hook and Harold Rosenberg. Many of
the friendships did not survive professional jealousies and the
rise of neoconservatism.
His love affair with literature carried him through a sometimes
stormy private life that included four marriages. His first was to
Natasha Dohn, also the daughter of Russian immigrants. The marriage
ended in divorce, and he married Caroline Bookman, with whom he had
a son, Michael. That marriage lasted three years, and in 1952, he
wed Ann Birstein, a novelist, with whom he had a daughter,
Cathrael. He married Judith Dunford, also a writer, in 1983.
He is survived by his wife; a son, Michael of Chevy Chase, Md.;
a daughter, Cathrael Kazin of Jerusalem; two stepsons, Jonathan
Dunford of Paris and Nathaniel Dunford of New York; a stepdaughter,
Hilary Shanahan of New York; a sister, Pearl Bell of Boston; two
grandchildren and five stepgrandchildren .
The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for use
by clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Saturday,
June 6. If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt on the
Star's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.
His acceptance speech, which began with a nostalgic snap-shop of
his immigrant family tree, took on the media as much as it did his
would-be opponent.
He criticized editorial writers and national newspapers for
failing to understand his work and defended his fund-raising as a
strategy designed to make sure he has the means to take his message
directly to the people.
As of April, D'Amato, chairman of the powerful Senate Banking
Committee, had raised $17 million and had $10.8 million on hand to
spend, dwarfing the sums collected by the three Democrats vying for
their party's nod to run against the 18-year incumbent.
The Democratic Party, however, has made it clear that D'Amato is
their primary target in the upcoming races in New York. His
potential opponents are former vice presidential candidate and talk
show host Geraldine Ferraro; U.S. Rep. Charles Schumer; and New
York City Public Advocate Mark Green.
But D'Amato, who is trailing in polls and painted himself as the
beleaguered underdog on Friday, did say he intends to campaign
aggressively.
One of the biggest groups the senator is tackling this year are
the teachers, who wield ample political muscle and campaign cash.
D'Amato, who has called for merit pay for good teachers and an
end to automatic tenure, reiterated his education reform goals on
Friday.
The Solomon Islands, a tiny country in the Pacific with a
population of 400,000, has no army and a police force of barely a
thousand including traffic cops. But last summer the government
purchased enough equipment to outfit a small combat unit including
assault rifles, machine guns, helmets, boots and two small
airplanes from a U.S. company.
At the Pentagon and the U.S. Customs Service, officials
expressed misgivings about the sale, fearing that the weapons and
the gear were destined for rebels in nearby Papau, New Guinea.
Others argued that it would be better for the Solomon Islands to
invest in health and education. Australia and New Zealand also
opposed the deal, believing it was irresponsible to be bringing
more weapons into the region.
But the State Department accepted that the arms were necessary
for the police and issued the necessary licenses. Since then, a
newly elected government in the Solomon Islands, suspicious about
the motives for the arms deal, has launched an investigation and
tried to cancel it.
While the sale to the Solomon Islands is military peanuts only
$3.4 million it offers a window into the workings of the small
arms trade which has equipped terrorist organizations and civil
wars from Afghanistan to Rwanda. Within the U.S. government,
arguments that such sales might fuel an ethnic conflict, or go to a
government with a poor human rights record, are routinely drowned
out by arguments that the deal will be good for U.S. business and
improve relations with other countries, U. S. officials say.
Even as the end of the Cold War has brought a decline in
government sales of tanks and jet fighters, the private military
trade is booming. From annual sales of between $2 billion to $3
billion during most of the Cold War, shipments have climbed to more
than $25 billion in 1996, government records show.
But it is the so-called small arms assault rifles, pistols,
mortars that are fueling the regional, ethnic and nationalist
wars.
The Clinton administration has pushed for international treaties
to curb the illegal trade in firearms, because these generally end
up in the hands of street criminals, organized crime syndicates, or
organizations Washington considers terrorist, like the Tamil Tigers
in Sri Lanka.
But there is a growing movement by groups like the British
American Security Information Council and the International
Committee of the Red Cross as well as governments like Norway and
Belgium to put controls on the legal arms trade.
The Solomon Islands deal would likely have remained a secret had
it not been for the change of government there last August, just
weeks after the prior government had ordered the weapons.
The new government has launched an investigation aimed in part
at learning more about the U.S. company that sold the weapons,
Century Arms.
The company is one of the largest arms traders in the United
States but its activities are shrouded in secrecy. The State and
Commerce departments, as well as the Customs Service, all declined
to provide any information about the licenses the company has
received for arms dealings. The company has offices in St. Albans,
Vt., and Boca Raton, Fla. Calls to both of these offices asking for
comment on the Solomon Islands sale were not returned.
OLATHE, Kan. An object found at the regional air traffic
control center in Olathe on Wednesday was a personal joke between a
contractor's employees and was not meant to resemble a bomb,
authorities said Thursday.
Lanza said there was no evidence that the two intended to make
the quart-sized water bottle filled with a brownish-yellow fluid
resemble a bomb.
The object sent a scare through the Kansas City Air Route
Traffic Control Center at 9:35 a.m. Wednesday one of the center's
busiest times.
Its discovery forced controllers to reroute about 200 airplanes
and temporarily ground 41 flights at more than 600 airports in the
area, including Kansas City International and Lambert-St. Louis
International.
The Olathe Fire Department took the object a clear plastic
water bottle with a disposable cup on the top and a cigarette
sticking out like a fuse to its explosives range and drew a
sample of the liquid.
Lanza declined to release the name of the contractor or the
employees involved. He also would not discuss the nature of the
joke.
He said the individuals told the FBI that they inadvertently
left the object in the men's room. It was discovered within a few
hours.
Lanza said the FBI interviewed those involved Wednesday evening
and Thursday morning for several hours before taking the
information to the U.S. attorney's office, which determined no
charges would be filed.
OK, folks, here it comes the vehicle you've been waiting for
since Dodge introduced the new Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out the
new F-150 in 1996.
General Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, it
was worth the wait.
Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling into
showrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle since
the current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988.
For 1999, the truck takes the name Silverado, which in the past
was the designation for an uplevel trim package on the Chevy
pickups.
The GMC version, which will show up in the fall, has a new name,
too: the Sierra.
To answer the big question first: No, there are no radical
styling changes, such as those on the Ram and F-150.
These trucks look different, make no mistake about that. But
they still look like General Motors full-size pickups; they're just
a bit rounder and have some updated trim, such as new headlights,
grilles and bumpers.
Unlike the Ram and F-150, the big differences aren't in style,
they're in substance. These trucks are stronger, faster, bigger,
roomier, and more high-tech than before and they outclass the
competition in all of those areas.
Take the back seat in the extended-cab models. It's a real seat,
with enough leg and knee room even for big folks. And the third
door, which comes on the passenger side, is larger than before (and
larger than those in the Dodge and Ford), which makes it easier to
get in and out.
The new GM pickups' V-8 engines are more powerful than the
competitions', too, with no penalty in fuel economy. In fact, gas
mileage exceeds that of the Ram and matches or exceeds that of the
F-150 in almost all cases.
Braking is vastly improved over the past C/K model and the
competition. The GM trucks stop 30 to 50 feet sooner than the
current models from 80 mph, thanks to large, four-wheel disc brakes
and a standard, four-wheel antilock system an exclusive feature
for this vehicle class.
The body is stronger than before, cutting down significantly on
squeaks and rattles, and providing better occupant protection. The
frame is 23 percent stiffer than that of the current model,
creating a strong foundation, and the frame is welded together,
rather than riveted, to add to that strength.
Reliability should be dramatically improved, too. The electrical
wiring, for instance, has five splices down from 92 in the
current model. Ford's F-150 has 118 wiring splices places where
something can go wrong.
There are some other great features about the new Chevy and GMC
trucks, too. They come with a coolant-loss protection system that
allows them to be driven up to 50 miles at 55 miles per hour with
no coolant in the radiator.
Battery rundown protection is built in: It shuts down the
electrical accessories if any are inadvertently left on after the
engine has been turned off.
Even the windows have been enlarged for greater visibility.
Brighter headlights and backup lights add to the visibility, and
the lights come on automatically when needed.
Five engines are available on the Silverado and Sierra, a V-6
and four V-8s, including a turbodiesel. Here are the choices:
It sounds bad, but consider: America is doing quite well, thank
you. Our robust economic growth, low unemployment and negligible
inflation are the envy of the world.
The observer, incidentally, is Bill Lyons, president and chief
operating officer of American Century Cos. Inc., parent company of
the American Century mutual funds family based in Kansas City.
Lyons no doubt is more acutely aware than most that mutual fund
assets topped $5 trillion this spring. That number is up from about
$300 billion in 1982, a phenomenon that isn't exactly reflective of
a wastrel society.
Put another way, the amount Americans have put into the mutual
fund piggy bank since the early 1980s just about equals the growth
in the national debt during that time. Meanwhile, Washington
collected hundreds of billions of dollars more in Social Security
taxes than it needed to finance benefits and spent the surplus.
What's ironic about the savings summit is that it's being held
in the nation's capital, where more has probably been done to
discourage thrift than any place in America. Nevertheless, Congress
and the White House ordered the confab to encourage Americans to
save more for their retirement.
What's really needed, however, is not so much a talkfest on the
subject but the political embrace of a set of policy measures that
would eliminate the myriad government-created disincentives to
saving in America. The first step should be to eliminate taxation
of the rewards derived when money is saved rather than spent. The
second step would be creation of a dual Social Security track that
would allow taxpayers to save some of their payroll taxes for their
own use in personal retirement accounts.
Another aspect of this issue is the question of whether the
savings problem really is as bad as many claim. Judging from
America's enviable situation, it certainly wouldn't seem so.
Why is this? The method of measuring savings distorts reality.
The rate is determined simply by subtracting national consumption
from after-tax income. This fails to account for the wealth created
by the soaring stock market or the equity buildup being enjoyed by
homeowners. Moreover, there's no way to measure the psychological
deterrent to saving created by Social Security taxes, which have
become a heavier load than the income tax burden for a majority of
taxpayers.
As for savings, the magnitude isn't as important as the way the
resources are used. Thailand, South Korea and Japan all have much
higher rates of saving than America, for instance, but those
countries are a mess. One reason for the Asian economic turmoil is
that much of the savings were squandered on ill-advised
investments. It doesn't matter how much a society saves if the
money isn't transformed into sound wealth-creating investment.
This is something else for the summiteers in Washington to keep
in mind. The masses who provided savings in Asia were essentially
betrayed by their political and business leaders. Now they have the
worst of all worlds: diminished prosperity and increasingly
doubtful prospects for comfortable retirements.
Body and drive combinations are numerous: There are regular and
extended-cab models in short- and long-bed versions, both with the
standard bed and the step-side bed and in two- or four-wheel
drive. They also come with varying suspensions, from a smooth
on-road configuration to a tough off-road one.
The Chevy trucks come in three trim levels: base, midlevel LS
and uplevel LT. Leather seats are available in Chevy and GMC
models, as are front bucket seats.
I've driven most of the new trucks, in both the GMC and Chevy
versions, including the four-wheel-drive models with the sporty
Z-71 off-road package. I put one of those to the test on a rugged
dirt road from Oracle, Ariz., to the top of Mount Lemmon, near
Tucson, and found the optional AutoTrac automatic four-wheel-drive
system to be convenient for on- and off-road use. The system
engages the front axle whenever the rear wheels begin to spin,
automatically transferring power up front.
These trucks also can be easily equipped for serious
trailer-towing. The Silverado's Z82 trailering package makes it the
most trailer-ready pickup on the market, Chevy says. It includes
plug-ins for trailer lights and electric brakes. And a tow/haul
mode in the automatic transmission changes the vehicle's shift
patterns to improve performance while towing. There's a button at
the end of the gearshift lever to switch the transmission into
towing mode.
The cabs are comfortable, and there's room for six adults with
three abreast in front and rear. Road and wind noise are
surprisingly light for a truck.
I couldn't find anything bad to say about these trucks, except
that there is no four-door extended-cab model planned. That could
drive some sales to the Dodge Ram Quad-Cab. Overall performance,
however, outshines that of the Ford and the Dodge, and only the
Ram's V-10 engine has more power than the best of the Gms.
Those of you concerned about the environment might like to know
that all of these trucks' plastic parts are recyclable. There are
44 pounds less scrap metal produced in the manufacture of each
truck that in the current model.
The Package: Full-size, two- or three-door,
two-to-six-passenger, V-6 or V-8 powered, rear- or four-wheel-drive
pickup truck, an all-new replacement for the C/K models; also
available in GMC version, called the Sierra.
Highlights: Stronger, bigger, more powerful and more high-tech
than before; significant but not outrageous restyling; built well;
most powerful V-8 engines in the class; roomier than the
competition; lots of standard safety features, including four-wheel
antilock brakes as standard equipment.
(G. Chambers Williams III writes on transportation issues for
the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. His mailing address is
Star-Telegram/Northeast, 3201 Airport Freeway, Suite 108, Bedford,
Texas 76021; his E-mail address is chambers(at)star-telegram.com.
Fax: (817) 685-3883. Check out his Wheelin' new-car review column
weekly on the Internet at
ww.netarrant.net/today/news/opinions/necol.htm. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com) 
Waffle-Crete started looking for sales in Southeast Asia early
in the decade, and now the region accounts for two-thirds of its
sales. The Hays company, which employs about 35 persons, makes
concrete forms used in construction.
A handful of U.S. ambassadors stationed in Southeast Asia
addressed the daylong conference at the Kansas City Marriott
Downtown hotel, describing the problems facing the countries in
which they are posted.
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, represents
a part of the world that has experienced torrid economic growth in
recent years. But currency problems and bad bank debt lately have
hurt the region. In some nations, such as Indonesia, social and
political unrest have followed.
Gov. Mel Carnahan, in a luncheon speech, said he had taken a
delegation of businesspeople to Asia and planned to tour other
parts of the world because the global economy is increasingly
important to Missouri.
Larry Jensen, a U.S. senior commercial officer based in Jakarta,
said Indonesia would rebound in two or three years.
Still, turmoil from a recent change of government leadership can
make it difficult to do business in Indonesia.
Thomas Hubbard, ambassador to the Philippines, said that a
decade ago the country experienced internal troubles similar to
those in Indonesia.
The Philippines' economy will grow by 2 percent to 3 percent
this year and 4 percent to 5 percent next year, he said. Exports
are soaring, particularly of Japanese and U.S. goods manufactured
in the country, he said.
And growth in the Philippines will take off once the country
recovers from the currency and stock market collapses it recently
sustained.
Vietnam has consolidated the number of government-owned
enterprises from 12,000 to 6,000 in recent years, according to
Dennis Harter, deputy chief of the U.S. mission in Hanoi. Communist
leaders still have not embraced capitalist market economics.
In Thailand, banks are saddled with bad debts of $25 billion,
about 20 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, according
to William Itoh, U.S. ambassador to the country.
On Thursday, Sprint Corp. said rates for daytime long-distance
calls were dropping to 10 cents a minute for residential customers.
Previously, the dime rate was available only at night and on
weekends, and daytime customers were charged 25 cents a minute.
The dime rate will be available free only to customers who rack
up long-distance bills of $30 a month or more. Otherwise, customers
will be charged a fee of $4.95 a month to qualify for the dime
rate.
As part of the Sprint Sense AnyTime plan, the company is
offering a rate of 25 cents a minute for calls billed to a calling
card and new rates for collect calls. A new dime-a-minute
collect-calling plan offers consumers the dime rate 24 hours a day
with a $1.95 surcharge per call. The plan is called 1-800-one-dime.
The Westwood-based Sprint will continue to offer its Sprint
Sense plan, with a dime-a-minute rate at nights and on weekends and
a rate of 25 cents a minute during the day, with no fees or minimum
charges.
ATT Corp. also offers a rate of 10 cents a minute, but only to
customers who sign up for the company's One Rate Plus plan, which
carries a fee of $4.95 a month.
MCI Communications Corp., the second-largest long-distance
company, has a plan that offers low rates during the evening and on
weekends but higher rates during the day. The MCI One plan offers
consumers long-distance for 10 cents a minute at night and on
Saturday, 5 cents a minute on Sundays and 25 cents a minute during
the day during the week.
The best long-distance plan offered by any of the top five
long-distance companies comes from Qwest, which offers 10 cents a
minute with no fees. Excel, the No. 5 carrier, offers 10 cents a
minute with a fee of $1 a month.
Smaller companies, which purchase time on the networks of larger
companies, sometimes offer the lowest rates.
CGI Long Distance Services, based in Mission, offers a rate of
10 cents a minute. Customers can keep their existing long-distance
service and get the CGI service by dialing a seven-digit access
code.
A Miami company, One Flat Rate.Com, advertises on the Internet
that it offers a flat rate of 8.9 cents a minute with no fees.
The amendment which for the first time in a generation would
have permitted school-sponsored organized prayer and religious
displays on public property received a majority with 224 votes.
Had the amendment passed, it would have required a similar
majority in the Senate and then ratification by three-fourths of
the state legislatures.
But the measure was a victory in any case for religious
conservatives and their supporters in Congress, who had made it a
legislative priority. It was the first time in 27 years that
Congress recorded a vote on a school prayer amendment and
Thursday's vote will become a political marker for the fall
elections.
An effort to remove the word from the measure was defeated, as
was an attempt to send the entire amendment back to committee.
And while the issue was certain to evoke strong passions, the
debate took on an even greater urgency among supporters. Against a
backdrop of recent killings in several of the nation's schools,
many speakers equated the attacks with the absence of a religious
presence in the classroom.
Supporters argued that children ought to be able to initiate
voluntary prayers in classrooms, at graduations, at sporting events
and other school activities. The amendment, they said, does not
require that everyone must join in, nor does it prescribe what
prayer should be said, nor establish an official religion.
But since the last vote on school prayer in 1971 when the
supporters actually gained more votes with 240 in favor and 163
against but still failed to reach a two-thirds majority faith and
family issues have moved center stage, especially in politics.
The coalition leaders have said they intend to send out 45
million voter guides next fall and the school prayer vote is likely
to be one of its leading political indicators.
Several complained that the rules governing the debate of the
amendment were patched together at the last minute and didn't
reflect the importance of the issue.
Each side boasted its own lists of interdenominational backing.
But as symbolic as the debate promised to be, it was largely made
in a near-empty chamber.
The galleries were half-full with tourists, scout groups and
others, while below, on the blue, red and gold carpeted floor, only
a few members were present at any one time, except during a vote,
when the hall was full.
The vote was almost strictly on party lines. One who did break
ranks, Rep. Amo Houghton Jr., a New York Republican, captured the
flavor of the debate.
WASHINGTON Prodded by the Supreme Court, a three-judge appeals
court panel agreed Friday to consider whether President Clinton's
closest confidant and three Secret Service employees must testify
before a federal grand jury investigating an alleged presidential
affair and cover-up.
The judges two of them appointed by Clinton announced that
arguments would be heard in the final week of June.
By refusing to shortcut the normal appeals route, the Supreme
Court handed Starr his first court setback since he began
investigating the president's relationship with former White House
intern Monica Lewinsky.
Starr's second loss came Friday when Chief U.S. District Judge
Norma Holloway Johnson released a May 22 order refusing the
prosecutor's request for access to records of a Barnes Noble
bookstore that might show books purchased by Lewinsky. The judge
ruled that Lewinsky's purchases were irrelevant to Starr's
investigation.
Once the three-judge panel rules, each decision can be appealed
to the entire 11-member Court of Appeals, which includes seven
Republican appointees. From there, the cases could be appealed to
the Supreme Court.
The White House has argued that Bruce Lindsey, a longtime friend
of President Clinton who serves as deputy White House counsel,
should not have to tell Starr's grand jury about his conversations
with the president about the Lewinsky matter.
White House lawyers say Lindsey's conversations are protected by
the attorney-client privilege, which shields most communication
between a client and lawyer. Starr argues that the privilege does
not apply to government lawyers, like Lindsey, who have information
about criminal behavior.
The Justice Department and the Treasury Department, which
oversees the Secret Service, have asserted that the president's
security detail should not be forced to cooperate with Starr's
inquiry because doing do would undermine the essential trust chief
executives must have in those who protect them.
Johnson last month sided with Starr and ruled against the
Clinton administration on both the privilege claims, which prompted
appeals.
In court documents filed in the past week, Starr and his team of
prosecutors argue that Lindsey and the Secret Service have
information vital to determining whether Clinton or others
obstructed justice by trying to cover up his alleged sexual
misbehavior.
In its order expediting consideration of the Clinton
administration appeals of Johnson's orders, the three-judge panel
set arguments for June 26 in the Secret Service case and the week
of June 29 on the Lindsey matter.
 A. Raymond Randolph, 54, who was deputy solicitor general
under Robert Bork. Named by President Bush to the Washington-based
Court of Appeals in 1990, Randolph has a reputation as an
intellectual and a tough questioner during oral arguments.
 Judith W. Rogers, 58, a Harvard-educated former assistant
attorney general who served as chief federal judge of the
Washington district before Clinton elevated her to the appeals
court. Prior to her appointment to the federal bench by President
Reagan, Rogers served as a corporation counsel for the District of
Columbia government.
 David Tatel, 56, a liberal who served in the Carter
administration as director of the Office of Civil Rights at the
Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Appointed to the
appeals court by Clinton in 1994, Tatel is admired by liberals and
conservatives for his fairness and thorough questioning during oral
arguments.
WASHINGTON The House narrowly approved a plan Friday to cut
taxes and spending far more deeply than last year's bipartisan
balanced budget deal. The move puts Republicans on another
ideological collision course with the White House over the size and
role of the federal government.
Despite the defection of nine moderates in the party unwilling
to support spending reductions of the magnitude called for in the
budget outline, the Republican leadership rammed the measure
through by a 216-204 vote after a contentious debate and some
intense arm-twisting.
The House plan calls for about $100 billion in tax cuts over the
next five years, offset by spending cuts of the same amount. The
primary tax cut would be a reduction in the so-called marriage
penalty, the provision in the tax code that forces many two-income
couples to pay more than they would if single.
It must be reconciled with a version passed by the Senate that
calls for $30 billion in tax cuts and keeps spending largely on the
path agreed to by Congress and President Clinton in last year's
balanced budget deal. And even after the House and Senate resolve
their differences, the resulting budget plan does not become law
but rather serves as a general blueprint for drafting spending and
tax bills.
The House decided Friday to increase military spending slightly
before accounting for the effects of inflation, but to reduce
domestic spending substantially. The plan did not specify what
programs would be cut from the budget, which next year will total
about $1.7 trillion, and postponed most of the reductions until
later years.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who worked the House floor until
the final moments to insure that wavering moderates voted yes, said
it was clear that the House would have to move in the Senate's
direction, somewhat diluting the party's ideological message. House
members are also under pressure from many governors to soften
provisions that would cut promised welfare block grants to the
states.
But a split-the-difference compromise with the Senate, yielding
tax and spending cuts of $60 billion or so over the next five
years, would put the Republicans into a potentially bruising fight
with the White House and congressional Democrats heading into the
fall election campaign.
Indeed, despite the prospect of huge budget surpluses for years
to come, the two parties are having much the same argument they
were having two years ago when they both anticipated deficits well
into the future.
In his budget proposal early this year, Clinton called for more
than $100 billion of new spending programs in education, child care
and health care, paid for in part by revenues the White House hopes
will be generated by anti-smoking legislation that may or may not
pass Congress. Clinton's budget called for $20 billion of narrowly
targeted tax cuts.
Moreover, Democratic strategists said, Friday's vote could give
Democrats potent ammunition in their effort to win back control of
the House by putting some moderate Republicans in key districts on
record as favoring what their Democratic opponents in the fall will
portray as extreme cuts.
Still, conservative Republicans seemed to be spoiling for
another ideological fight. After having seen their fervor for
smaller government dissipate last year under pressure to reach a
pragmatic budget-balancing compromise with Clinton, Gingrich and
his lieutenants were clearly eager to reassert their conservative
credentials in advance of this year's mid-term Congressional
elections.
The most conservative Republicans had been pressing for $150
billion in tax and spending cuts, but gave way when it became
apparent that such big cuts would make it impossible to pass the
plan in the House.
Although the party's leadership came up with the needed votes,
some moderates said they were voting for the plan only reluctantly,
fearing that the combination of big tax cuts and unspecified future
spending reductions imposed too much of a strain on legitimate
government programs and risked the nation's newfound fiscal health.
But during the floor debate, Gingrich appealed to party loyalty
and warned potential dissidents not to distance themselves from the
party's accomplishments of the past few years.
MEXICO CITY The first showers of the rainy season have fallen
across parts of Mexico and Central America but have failed to
quench many wildfires that are destroying virgin forests and
feeding a smoke cloud that is drifting across the southern United
States, officials said Friday.
Mexican and American officials predicted that some fires, which
have consumed millions of acres of forest and grassland across the
region, may continue to rage for several weeks. About 150 fires, 23
of them large, very destructive blazes, were burning this week.
The U.S. delegation visited Mexico to coordinate a $5 million
assistance program, which includes a heavy-lift helicopter and
radios, as well as boots and other safety equipment for 3,000
Mexican forest rangers. Many Mexican firefighters have been wearing
straw hats and sandals while battling flames with buckets of water.
The American officials praised Mexico's battle to control the
fires, in which more than 60 firefighters have died this year.
He said many, perhaps most, of the blazes have started as
out-of-control agricultural fires, set by peasant farmers who
prepare their fields for planting by burning the previous year's
stubble. In other cases, forests have been set afire to clear plots
for growing marijuana or opium, he said.
WASHINGTON Republican leaders mustered enough support Friday
to pass a five-year $101 billion tax cut plan, but it was hardly a
victory for some GOP moderates concerned that making deeper
reductions in social programs to pay for it could hurt them in an
election year.
The non-binding budget resolution was approved by a narrow
margin of 216-204. It lays out an ambitious plan to cut taxes by an
additional $101 billion over the next five years and to pay for it
by making the same amount of cuts in various entitlement programs.
But it fails to specify how much would be trimmed from areas such
as welfare, education and Medicaid, and it includes no
recommendations on how to pay for $25 billion in extra spending
included in the recently approved highway and agriculture bills.
Several moderate Republican who voted against the resolution
said they were concerned about the lack of specifics in the measure
and warned that the tax cuts might be too much at a time when the
country is still saddled with an estimated $6 trillion debt.
In an attempt to head off an embarrassing defeat of the
resolution, Republican leaders twisted arms right up until the last
minute in hopes of keeping together enough of their GOP colleagues
to pass it. They were aided in their efforts by the defection of a
handful of conservative Democrats.
But despite the outcome in favor of more tax cuts, the House GOP
plan has almost no chance of standing up in conference with the
Senate, which has approved a more modest five-year budget blueprint
calling for $30 billion in tax cuts and few spending reductions
beyond those outlined in last year's balanced budget agreement with
President Clinton.
Indeed, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M.,
has criticized the House resolution for not identifying where
spending reductions would be made to pay for the tax cuts, which
would come largely from the elimination of the so-called marriage
penalty.
Ending the marriage penalty, or the extra tax that an estimated
21 million couples would not have to pay if they were still filing
as singles, would benefit mostly upper, two-income families. That's
why some Republican moderates are worried that cuts in social
programs that affect the poor and retired could backfire on them in
an election year.
Elimination of the marriage penalty has long been a goal of
pro-family conservatives, and Gingrich promised in a meeting
several weeks ago with social and religious conservative leaders
that it would be included in the GOP budget plan.
Although the budget resolution is non-binding, it is used to set
the broad goals for spending and revenues as Congress goes about
its annual ritual of authorizing and appropriating funds for
government departments and agencies.
For example, the GOP House blueprint, authored by Budget
Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, calls for spending $1.73
trillion on federal programs in 1999. It envisions a budget surplus
of $34 billion next year and $223 billion by 2004. Kasich's plan
also delays most of its tax and spending cuts until 2003.
In their effort to defeat the measure, Democratic opponents drew
attention to the differences between the Kasich plan and the budget
resolution recently passed by the Senate. Differences over the two
measures, they warned, could lead to another government shutdown
this fall.
In rallying to pass the Kasich plan, the Republicans rejected a
budget proposal sponsored by Rep. John Spratt, D-S.C., that was
similar in many ways to the plan passed by the Senate. It also
contained $30 billion in tax cuts over five years with few spending
reductions. But it would have increased spending on education,
welfare, Medicaid and other programs by $10 billion. The increases
in those areas, however, would have been paid for by the same
amount of cuts in other entitlement programs. XXXX END OF STORY 
The Dow Jones industrial average, after weeks of sluggish
trading, rose 167.15 points, or 1.88 percent, to close at 9,037.71,
its biggest surge in four months.
The gains in blue-chip issues created a broad two-day rally in
equity prices, and even lifted bond prices, after two days of
government reports portrayed an economy that was revving on all
cylinders.
The reports, one on Thursday which said that factory orders,
productivity and retail sales were rising, and another Friday that
showed strong job growth with little inflationary pressure, set off
a buying spree on Wall Street, particularly in blue-chip stocks.
The Standard Poor's 500-stock index soared 19.03 points, or
1.74 percent, to close at 1,113.86 and the technology-heavy Nasdaq
composite gained 12.97 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to
1,782.92.
Wall Street analysts said the reports suggested that the
domestic economy may be resilient enough to withstand the festering
economic crisis in Asia, which dented investor sentiment last
October, and that a slowdown in corporate profit growth at home may
soon reverse course.
In recent weeks, though, weakening profit growth and high
valuations had largely sapped enthusiasm for stocks, punishing
scores of technology shares, and knocking 4.4 percent off the Dow's
all-time high of 9,211.84, set in May.
But again and again in this bull market, investors have been
warmed by a steady stream of government reports about an economy
that has managed to steer a deft middle ground between economic
might and slackening growth.
That outlook which many skeptics have long cast doubt on seemed to be hinted at in Friday's government report, which managed
to cheer both stock and bond investors. Stock investors because it
seemed to portend solid profits; bond investors because they did
not see inflation accelerating in the jobs data.
As a result, while the Dow soared in early trading, bond prices
also rose. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed half a
point, pushing down its benchmark yield to 5.78 percent from 5.82 a
day earlier, the lowest close since early January, meaning that
long-term interest rates are once again near a 25-year low. (Bond
prices and their yields move in opposite directions.)
That enthusiastic combination fed on itself throughout the day.
Investors, tentative since early April, went back to their favorite
big, blue-chip issues, such as Walt Disney, Merck and IBM.
GIBSONBURG, Ohio. Last Friday I asked my 8th-graders to close
their books (Saroyan's, The Human Comedy) and define the word
(ITAL)dignity(END ITAL). For a long few seconds, nothing happened.
Then Johnny went for a dictionary.
They're looking a bit bored, and I'm beginning to think maybe
I'm whistling in the wind - again. Saved by the bell.
GIBSONBURG, Ohio. Last Friday I asked my 8th-graders to close
their books (Saroyan's, The Human Comedy) and define the word
(ITAL)dignity(END ITAL). For a long few seconds, nothing happened.
Then Johnny went for a dictionary.
They're looking a bit bored, and I'm beginning to think maybe
I'm whistling in the wind - again. Saved by the bell.
Suddenly, they can be seen everywhere, these Compagnie
Rpublicaine de Scurit foot soldiers. And while their only visible
weapons are a glare, a long black billy club and what appear to be
steel-toed jackboots, they are not to be trifled with. I find
myself practically tiptoeing in their presence, because they have
been trained to assume guilt, not innocence.
The latter group notwithstanding, the French have bravely
promised unprecedented hospitality for the Coupe du Monde, the
Super Bowl for the rest of the world that starts Wednesday
afternoon at the new Stade du France, an I.M. Pei-designed marvel
in the gritty northern suburb of Saint-Denis. But they have also
flat-out guaranteed unprecedented levels of security.
With England's notorious soccer rowdies just a Chunnel ride
away, and the Islamic crazies from Algeria plotting more heinous
crimes against humanity as we speak despite being busted recently
in a major pre-emptive strike, nothing is being left to chance. One
hundred million francs have been spent by World Cup organizers,
with the government putting up a couple of billion more.
The technology in the Stade, where the championship game will be
July 12, is such that hidden cameras can focus on every one of the
80,000 faces in the stands and print out an instant mug shot. So if
you're lucky enough to have a ticket, remember not to be with
someone you're not supposed to be with, and by all means don't pick
your nose.
In Marseilles, where the English and the Tunisians tangle, Big
Brother will be watching especially closely. There, the lgion
trangre yes, the beau geste bunch, the French Foreign Legion has been charged with keeping the peace.
Already, they are not happy campers. Marching through Charles de
Gaulle Airport in full combat gear upon their arrival, the
Legionnaires roughed up several tourists, confiscating the cameras
of those who innocently tried to take pictures.
But in our world, security must be an overriding concern.
France, the most visited country on the planet on a per-capita
basis (tourists to residents), will be overrun by an extra 2.5
million soccer-crazy partisans in the weeks ahead, and some of them
will be from places where fomentation is the national pastime.
Iran, the U.S. team's opponent in Lyon on June 21, comes quickly
to mind. But the Iranians who have tickets should be a docile
bunch. The vast majority of them are government functionaries who
had a well-placed brother-in-law or cousin, and they are mad only
about their soccer lads.
At Iran's tourist office on the Champs Elyses, a giant
photograph of the country's superstar, Ali Daei, has been pasted
above the door. The Great Satan became a back-burner concern the
moment the Iranians qualified last in the field of 32 with a
final-minute goal in their final match.
Because few soccer fans will wind up on Alpine peaks or in
backwoods hostelries, the potential for chaos in the nine cities
hosting competition (two Paris-area stadiums are being used) is
huge. Nothing ruins the global-village, hands-across-the-water
ideal quicker than a bomb in a trash container or, almost as bad, a
sudden rail strike.
France's transportation-sector employees were made to sign blood
oaths to be kind to tourists, but the contract didn't include a
no-walkout promise. So Paris Metro workers and those of the RER
(regional) and SNCF (national) railways have staged halfhearted but ominous work stoppages in support of their proletarian
brothers, the striking Air France pilots.
If there is carnage during the World Cup, chances are it won't
have political overtones. The worst riots will be caused by
hysterical fans who have been told the soccer express to
Saint-Etienne or Toulouse has been canceled and they're going to
miss their nation's game.
NEW YORK Relief in the late innings is standard operating
procedure for the post-operative David Cone, and predictably, the
phone rang in the New York Yankees' bullpen in the sixth inning
Sunday. Graeme Lloyd got up after Cone hit one batter and walked
another, but when Cone retired Florida's Mark Kotsay, Lloyd sat
down without throwing a pitch.
Yankees relievers kept popping up in the bullpen over the next
three innings, like in a carnival game, but they would sit back
down when Cone continued to get outs, including the last. Cone
allowed two hits, struck out 14 batters and pitched his first
complete game since May 2, 1996, in beating the Florida Marlins 4-1
before 47,731 at Yankee Stadium.
The Yankees and Marlins are inhabiting opposite ends of baseball
at the moment. The Yankees have won seven straight games and 43 of
their last 52, and they are 44-13 over all; at this rate, they
would finish 125-37. The Marlins, the champions of baseball last
season, have lost 11 straight, and at this rate they would win 45
and lose 117. The Marlins began play Sunday 25 games behind the
Atlanta Braves in the NL East; according to the Elias Sports
Bureau, the last team to be that far behind after 60 games was the
1962 New York Mets, arguably the worst team ever.
But Cone, who has won all eight of his decisions since losing
his first on April 4, would have been highly effective against any
team. Fresh from eight days of rest, he threw hard, he had good
control improvement, Yankees manager Joe Torre said, that had
been evident in his last start, before his mother's Jack Russell
terrier bit him on the right index finger.
Cone was often erratic in his first nine starts. But there was
one consistent aspect to his pitching: his slider spun down and
away from right-handed hitters, six inches to a foot off the
outside edge of the strike zone.
Rarely did umpires call it for strikes, and Cone was not casting
the pitch close enough to home plate to tempt hitters into
swinging. His slider, which has been his best pitch in recent
years, had lost its value. There had to be a way he could throw it
more effectively.
After Veronica, his mother's dog, bit his hand, Cone fretted
about the effect the cut would have on his split-fingered fastball,
a pitch that requires pressure from his index finger. Catcher Joe
Girardi called for only one splitter in the first six innings, but
in the seventh, with the end in sight, Cone started throwing the
pitch one more thing for the Marlins' hitters to worry about.
Cone whiffed two in the seventh, to reach 10.
Paul O'Neill, Tino Martinez and Bernie Williams all had homered
in the early innings, and the Yankees led by 4-0 as Cone took the
mound for the eighth. He struck out three more in the inning, but
lost the shutout on a booming double. Torre intended to call on a
reliever for the ninth, before Cone told him he wanted to throw the
last inning.
With his home run in the first inning, Paul O'Neill extended his
hitting streak to 15 games, the longest by a Yankee this season.
... O'Neill, Tino Martinez and Bernie Williams all homered, the
first time this season the Yankees' 3-4-5 hitters had hit home runs
in the same game and only the second time any two of them hit
homers in the same game. ... The Yankees have either won or tied
their last 22 series, extending the franchise record. It is the
most since the 1970 Cincinnati Reds won or tied 24 consecutive
series.
If Kenneth Starr has his way, any American who consults a lawyer
from now on will face the possibility that after his or her death
the lawyer will be forced to testify about the conversation in
federal criminal proceedings. The confidential character of the
lawyer-client relationship will end.
That is the position taken by Starr in a case being argued in
the Supreme Court on Monday. He wants to see three pages of
handwritten notes that were taken by a Washington lawyer, James
Hamilton, when Vincent Foster came to see him in 1993. Foster,
assistant White House counsel, was suffering from severe
depression. Nine days later he committed suicide.
No federal prosecutor before Starr has made that claim. A
divided U.S. Court of Appeals held in this case that the
lawyer-client privilege could be overridden if a trial judge found
that a lawyer's evidence about a deceased client was likely to be
substantial and unavailable elsewhere. But Starr, unsatisfied with
that balancing of interests, asks the Supreme Court to hold that
the privilege always ends with death.
But a truthful person may want to speak in confidence to a
lawyer. The criminal law is so full of traps for the unwary these
days that anyone even tangentially concerned would be a fool not
to. The discussion may well include the client's suspicions about
others that he would not want published after his death. And he
might care about his own posthumous reputation.
Fear of later disclosure may lead an honest person to keep
things back from a lawyer to be less than candid. The
lawyer-client privilege is rooted deeply in our law precisely
because it encourages the client to speak candidly and enables the
lawyer to give meaningful advice.
Starr's position in the Foster privilege case is not a solitary
example of extremism. As independent counsel he has repeatedly
pressed at and beyond the edge of appropriate prosecutorial
behavior.
One tactic he uses is to call people before the grand jury again
and again. Betty Currie, President Clinton's secretary, is one
victim of that practice, which reeks of abuse.
Then there is the notorious treatment of Susan McDougal. After
she served 18 months in prison for civil contempt for refusing, she
says, to testify as Starr wanted, he paraded her in chains one more
time and had her indicted for criminal contempt.
Most troublesome of all is Starr's penchant for imagining, and
investigating, plots against his inquiry. A man who urged
prosecution of Linda Tripp for violating Maryland law when she
tape-recorded her telephone conversations with Monica Lewinsky was
called before Starr's grand jury. So was a Pentagon official, to be
questioned about the disclosure that Ms. Tripp had omitted from a
Pentagon security form the fact that she was once arrested for
grand larceny.
Anyone who resists Starr's overreaching is likely to be
denounced for delaying the investigation or obstructing justice.
Too much of the press voices such criticism, unable to see the
dangers of a prosecutor with no restraints of time or money.
Starr wants to win: to bring down President Clinton. That
obsession led him last week to the folly of telling the Supreme
Court that the country urgently needed expedited review of another
of his cases: a threadbare claim. The court, one institution that
does not dance to his tune, said no.
The point, now as in the McCarthy days, is to remember the
larger interest: our interest in liberty and privacy. It is not
just Bill Clinton who will lose if Kenneth Starr truncates the
lawyer-client privilege. We all will.
WASHINGTON When Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida sued the tobacco
industry in early 1995, he ignited a legal and political war that
raged for the next three years. During the course of the lawsuit to
recoup smoking-related health costs, which culminated in an $11.3
billion settlement last summer, tobacco interests poured more than
$1 million into the state, most of it going to political opponents
of the governor, a Democrat.
Since 1995, the tobacco industry has contributed $592,000 to the
Florida Republican Party, more than twice what it gave to Florida
Democrats. The industry also sprinkled an additional $338,244 among
friendly state legislators and other Florida political groups, many
of whom opposed the state's lawsuit and tried unsuccessfully to
derail it.
Cigarette makers' heavy contributions in Florida are part of a
national mosaic, according to an analysis of state party financial
records conducted for The New York Times by the Campaign Study
Group, a private research firm. Since 1995, when many states joined
Florida in filing lawsuits against the tobacco industry, Republican
and Democratic state party central committees in 26 states,
including Florida, have received $1.8 million in donations from
tobacco interests.
As the Senate considers comprehensive tobacco legislation at the
federal level, attention has focused on the big donations from the
five major tobacco companies and a few other tobacco industry
supporters to the Republican National Committee and various
Republican and Democratic lawmakers.
But scant attention has been paid to the industry's donations at
the state level, in part because these contributions are much
harder to track. The state parties have varying disclosure
requirements. Contributions to federal candidates are disclosed
several times a year to the Federal Election Commission.
The $1.8 million in tobacco contributions to the state parties
is important in light of legislation being debated in the House of
Representatives to ban corporate and labor union contributions to
the national parties. If such legislation is enacted, other
industries could follow the tobacco manufacturers' lead and begin
contributing much larger amounts to state parties. Many states
allow unlimited contributions to a state party.
The Campaign Study Group analyzed the election records of the
state party central committees in every state. In addition to the
donations from tobacco interests to the state Democratic and
Republican Parties, the study found an additional $1.7 million in
contributions since 1995 to state candidates and other committees
in four states that make complete campaign finance data for
candidates and other state parties readily available.
Given the less specific disclosure rules in the other states, it
is almost impossible to determine the total contributions to
individual state candidates, but campaign finance analysts believe
that cigarette makers, as well as other industries, are giving huge
amounts.
According to the analysis of the tobacco industry's state-level
political contributions, one cigarette maker, the Philip Morris
Cos., accounted for 62 percent of the $1.8 million given by tobacco
interests to the state parties. And 70 percent of the $1.8 million
went to Republicans.
The big tobacco companies have donated more money at the federal
level, contributing nearly $4 million to the Republican National
Committee and $325,000 to the Democratic National Committee since
1995. The state party contributions are significant because they
came at a time when the tobacco industry was trying to slow a legal
juggernaut that began when the Democratic attorney general of
Mississippi filed a lawsuit in 1994 to recover smoking-related
Medicaid costs from the big tobacco companies.
Subsequently, some 40 other states sued the cigarette makers.
These lawsuits led to last year's historic $368.5 billion
settlement between a group of state attorneys general and the
tobacco industry. But the settlement is subject to approval by the
Congress. Comprehensive tobacco legislation introduced in the
Senate has faced stiff opposition and prospects in the House are
also cloudy.
Of the 26 states in which the tobacco industry donated funds to
state party central committees, nearly half went to Florida. The
next largest donations went to New York, where the Republican state
committee received $254,100 and the Democrats received $5,000 , and
Washington State where the Republicans got $121,000 and the
Democrats received nothing.
In the 11 states receiving the b ulk of the tobacco
donations, Republican committeesreceived more than the Democrats in
all but two. In Missouri, the Democratic committee received $96,500
and the Republicans received $41,000. In Nebraska, the Democrats
got $20,000 white the Republicans received nothing. In the 15 other
states, the parties received less than $10,000 each. The tobacco
companies say their state-level contributions were not intended to
blunt lawsuits but to support local, pro-business candidates and
legislation.
The tobacco contributions in Florida have become an issue in the
coming gubernatorial contest between the likely Democratic
candidate, Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay, and the likely Republican
candidate, Jeb Bush. Bush's campaign has called MacKay a hypocrite
for portraying himself as an anti-tobacco crusader who eschews
tobacco donations, while the state's Democratic Party took in
$25,000 in 1998 from tobacco interests. Republicans received
$42,000 from tobacco interests.
While the state lawsuits have been an important concern, there
are other issues at the state level that are critical to tobacco,
including excise taxes and local anti-smoking ordinances. But some
recipients of tobacco industry money said the contributions were
not tied to particular issues.
Some industries contribute to the state parties because their
donations are sometimes controversial and state-level donations are
less noticed than federal contributions. Gambling and alcohol
interests also contributed heavily to the state parties. In 1996,
the Democratic National Committee directed several tobacco and
gaming companies to make their donations to state Democratic
parties instead of to the Democratic National Committee.
Also, with prospects clouded for federal legislation to enact
the historic settlement reached last year between the cigarette
makers and the states, the pro-tobacco forces may need their allies
at the state level more than ever.
CHICAGO As the Chicago Bulls play the Utah Jazz in the NBA
Finals, a series that some speculate may be Michael Jordan's Last
Games, Last Dance, Last Stand (would one of Jordan's last meals
then be the Last Repast?), it would be helpful to consider the
circumstances surrounding the possible grounding of His Airness.
To many, the Bulls' coach, Phil Jackson, is the key to Jordan's
basketball-playing future. And by extension, the Bulls' management
has been perceived as that which holds the hand that holds the key.
The 35-year-old Jordan has said, and then seemingly hedged, that
he would not return to the Bulls the only team he said he would
consider playing for if Jackson was not the coach. Jackson was
the bench leader behind all the Bulls' five championships.
Jordan has coyly left the impression that he may not go
voluntarily into that good night, and that the Bulls' management,
like the proprietor of a vaudeville stage, might just be applying a
hook, although circumspectly. That is, no Jackson, no Jordan.
Jordan is not alone in this intimation. Phil Jackson has indirectly
also allowed the idea to spread.
Jackson has repeatedly stated publicly that this would be his
last season. And why would this be Jackson's last season? Because,
it is generally believed, Bulls management wants it that way, and
is pushing Jackson out.
Last summer, Jackson indeed signed a one-year contract but he
had been offered a five-year contract, then a two-year contract,
and turned them down for the one-year deal.
It would be necessary to know, among other points, whether
Jackson would want to be involved in rebuilding the Bulls, perhaps
the oldest team in the league. Jackson has suggested he would not.
But like the ghost of Banquo, the notion hovers that in a matter
of a fortnight, Jordan will be gone forever from the hardwood
scene, depriving a city, a nation and large pockets of the rest of
the earth, the moon and the stars the pleasure of his basketball
genius. It is a genius still wondrous, though, older and achier, he
is no longer first in flight.
But if Jordan is relying on the Jackson outcome, then it seems
safe to say that the decision is Jackson's, because it is
Reinsdorf's.
MEXICO CITY Alejandra Barrales Magdaleno's views about unions
and labor were forged while she was flying into U.S. cities as a
$700-a-month Aeromexico flight attendant, often alongside those
from U.S. airlines whose salaries were four times as high.
Now as the leader of Mexico's 2,000-member flight attendants
union, Ms. Barrales symbolizes the more independent and vigorous
labor movement emerging here a year after the death of Fidel
Velazquez, the union czar who kept workers submissive for decades.
With Mexico's economy strengthening after years of crisis, Ms.
Barrales brought to a modestly successful conclusion on Saturday
evening the first nationwide strike by one of the politically
independent unions that formed a new federation last year. These
unions are an important element in Mexico's democratic transition.
The contrast could hardly be more dramatic between Velazquez,
who was anti-communist, anti-American and when he died last year
at the age of 97 antediluvian, and Ms. Barrales, who is 30 years
old, politically independent, and an admirer of the U.S., Canadian
and European labor movements.
There are now fewer strikes in Mexico because so many have been
crushed. In fact, the government helped management during the
flight attendants' strike by seizing control of the airline to keep
planes flying.
But during a week of picketing and negotiations, Ms. Barrales
marshaled middle-class support and focused international pressure
on management, finally wringing modest salary increases and new
benefits from the airline.
Despite Mexican workers' reputation for being among the world's
most long-suffering, the outcome suggests that after nearly two
decades of falling wages, some at least want to lodge more
aggressive demands.
The Mexican Workers Confederation known by its initials in
Spanish, CTM which Velazquez headed, is still Mexico's largest
labor body by far, representing some 10 million workers. But last
year Ms. Barrales helped found a rival federation, the National
Workers Union, which now represents some 1.5 million members and
appears to be growing fast.
During the first decades after Velazquez helped forge the
postrevolutionary labor movement in the 1930s and 1940s, his
official federation, which forms one wing of the long-governing
Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, won important
improvements in wages and working conditions in exchange for
turning out the vote on election day.
But after 1982, the year of a watershed debt crisis, Velazquez's
official unions worked mainly to discipline workers into tightening
their belts as inflation and devaluations cut into real wages.
Sidney Weintraub, an economist at Georgetown University's Center
for Strategic and International Studies, cited government
statistics in a recent article outlining the extraordinary erosion
of Mexican wages. In 1980, he said, Mexican manufacturing workers
earned 22 percent of what their U.S. counterparts earned. By 1996,
Mexican wages had fallen to 8 percent of U.S. wages, he said.
Few groups of workers have felt this decline more painfully than
the country's airline employees. In the wake of a 1988
privatization, two-thirds of Aeromexico's 12,000-member work force
were eliminated, and workers who managed to keep their jobs lost
pensions, seniority rights and virtually every other benefit.
If some Aeromexico workers viewed the sacrifices as an
investment in the company's future, the altruism soured in 1994,
when Aeromexico's high-flying chief executive suddenly fled Mexico
after government accusations that he had embezzled $72 million from
the airline. He, in turn, through his lawyers, accused PRI
officials of shaking the airline down for $8 million in
election-year contributions even as the company was sliding into
bankruptcy.
Since Ms. Barrales was elected president of her union in 1995,
she has been watching Aeromexico's balance sheets, which have been
improving. She said the company earned nearly $100 million in
profits last year. An Aeromexico spokesman declined to divulge the
official figure.
Before the strike, Aeromexico's most senior flight attendants
earned about $7,400 a year, compared with about $42,000 on U.S.
airlines, according to union statistics. Saturday's agreement will
raise salaries by 18 percent and establish a retirement plan.
The explosion occurred a little after 4 a.m. near Khairpur, in
the southern province of Sindh, as the Khyber Mail train was making
its run from Karachi to Peshawar.
The blast went off under a seat in the middle of a crowded
economy-class passenger car, wounding about 32 people in addition
to the 23 who were killed, Pakistan Railway officials said. The
dead included four women and two children
The explosion and the swift Pakistani reaction appeared likely
to increase tensions between the two countries longtime enemies
that have just stunned the world by setting off rival nuclear
tests.
Each has blamed the intelligence services of the other for
planting bombs and stirring up trouble among the region's many
fractious religious and ethnic groups.
Hussain, Pakistan's information minister, said the government
had an Indian agent in custody who had been captured near the
Indian border. He said the Indian had confessed to similar acts of
terrorism, including 10 bombings in a 9-week period this year that
resulted in 16 deaths and that wounded another 93 people.
He suggested, too, that a bombing earlier this week in a movie
theater in Lahore, which killed three people and wrecked the
theater, was part of an Indian-sponsored series of terrorist acts.
He said the main suspect was an Indian citizen.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan, on a tour of Persian
Gulf emirates and Saudi Arabia in hopes of garnering financial
support in the face of impending sanctions, announced plans to
visit Britain, Canada and the United States in an effort to build
support among Pakistani expatriots. He is scheduled to be in New
York on June 16. Money sent home by Pakistanis working abroad is
one of the main sources of income in the country's beleaguered
economy.
PHILADELPHIA A year ago, soon after the First Union U.S.
professional cycling championship, there were tears for George
Hincapie and his family tears of sorrow. Sunday, there were tears
again tears of joy as the 24-year-old New York native finally
won the national championship he thought he had captured last year.
In a frantic finish to a 156-mile circuit race through streets
and parks that had the pack flying at almost 45 miles an hour at
the end, Hincapie started sprinting with about 270 yards to go. He
won by 2 feet, the width of a bike wheel. Massimiliano Mori and the
Saeco-Cannondale team of Italy was second and Tomas Konecny of the
Czech Republic and the ZVVZ-Giant team was third.
Especially after last year. George Hincapie came in third here,
behind an Italian and an Australian. As the first American
finisher, he became the national champion. On the victory podium,
he was given a national champion's stars-and-stripes jersey and a
bouquet. And it was Father's Day, and Ricardo Hincapie had the gift
he wanted most.
Eighty minutes later, when they returned to their hotel, the
phone rang with awful news: officials said Hincapie's team car had
illegally led him back to the pack after he had a flat tire. They
disqualified him.
Also the high-rent zone because the $120,160 overall purse (with
$30,000 to the winner) makes this the world's richest one-day bike
race. The first 31 finishers were given the same time 6 hours 6
minutes 35 seconds, or 25.53 miles per hour. Of the 103 starters,
66 finished.
Hincapie is 6 feet 3 inches and 185 pounds. He is a fifth-year
pro who got his first bike at age 8 and promptly won a BMX race. He
was born in Richmond Hill, N.Y., and at age 11 moved to
Farmingdale, N.Y. He now lives in Charlotte, N.C.
He rides for the U.S. Postal Service team, where his teammates
include Lance Armstrong and Frankie Andreu, who were on his first
pro team, Motorola. When Armstrong was healthy, Hincapie and Andreu
comprised his support group. Now, 20 months after Armstrong
underwent extensive surgery for testicular cancer that had spread
to his abdomen and brain, he has been riding for them.
Armstrong kept the race honest. After five others had broken
away early and stayed in front for 90 miles and almost four hours,
he led the chase that reeled them in. With 16 miles to go, he led
the race. With seven miles to go, he led the race.
After that, he pushed the pace, ran down breaks and helped lead
Hincapie through the pack to a position where Hincapie could win.
Armstrong finished 33rd, 19 seconds behind Hincapie. But as an
ultimate team player in this ultimate team sport, Armstrong was a
winner. After the race, he was satisfied.
Petra Rossner, a 31-year-old German who rides for the
Vizir-Russian National team, won the $44,737 Liberty Classic for
women, the world's richest one-day race for women. She beat Diana
Ziluite of Lithuania by three bike lengths, or 18 feet. The first
51 finishers were timed in 2 hours 22 minutes 18 seconds for 57.6
miles, an average of 24.29 miles an hour. The race, run during the
men's race, drew 115 starters and 96 finishers. ... Jeannie Longo
of France and Zulfia Zabirova of Russia, the 1996 Olympic
champions, were involved in a four-rider crash 300 meters from the
finish. Both suffered scrapes and bruises, and Zabirova was
hospitalized as a precaution.
WASHINGTON Rep. Albert Wynn of Maryland would seem an unlikely
figure to buck his party on the overhaul of campaign finance laws.
After all, he is seeking a position in the House Democratic
leadership next year.
But like some others in the Congressional Black Caucus, Wynn has
doubts about banning the unlimited, unregulated contributions to
political parties, known as soft money, at the heart of abuses in
the 1996 campaign. His doubts are partly because some of those
contributions have traditionally paid for get-out-the-vote drives.
As the House returns to its campaign finance debate, perhaps
later this week, the unlikely bipartisan coalition that has kept
the overhaul debate alive cannot afford to lose many of the three
dozen or so Democrats who, like Wynn, are undecided. Only 30 to 45
Republicans are thought to support the moves to reduce money in
politics. And that means that every Democratic vote is crucial if
an overhaul measure is to pass.
Moreover, holding onto the Democrats is just one of the
challenges facing the coalition as it maneuvers through what could
turn into a summer of legislative traps and pitfalls.
The 1996 presidential election saw the virtual collapse of the
post-Watergate campaign finance system, as the two political
parties found ways to use unregulated contributions to get around
campaign spending limits. But Republican leaders in Congress oppose
the effort to tighten the law, seeing it as an effort to erode
their party's traditional fund-raising advantage.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich tried to dispense with the campaign
finance issue in March under rules that never allowed the
Shays-Meehan bill to the floor. But the tactic backfired and gave
the issue momentum. So Gingrich, in an about-face, promised a full
and free-wheeling debate.
It may be more like a three-ring circus. In a House that is
usually tightly controlled, the Republicans are allowing a dozen
separate overhaul proposals to be considered, along with 257
separate amendments. (That number has been whittled down from
nearly 600 proposed amendments.) The proposal that emerges with the
most votes will then be taken up for final consideration.
Gingrich originally promised the issue would be debated by the
end of May. And debate did begin for several meandering hours and
without votes just before the Memorial Day recess. Debate was
scheduled to resume last week, but did not after the House spent
two days considering the budget. Republican leaders now say the
issue might come up this week, but Democrats suspect they are
stalling.
Republicans have carefully tailored amendments to create maximum
political embarrassment to the Democrats and to split the
bipartisan coalition.
And Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., has introduced an amendment
reminding voters of the Clinton campaign's excesses. It would
prohibit campaign contributions made in exchange for access to the
White House, Air Force One and Two, the vice president's residence
and Marine One and Two, the helicopters that carry the president
and vice president.
Last week, some supporters of overhauling campaign finance laws
began to fear that one measure that might get the most votes would
create a commission to study the issue and draw up a campaign
finance proposal. Because half of the commission's 12 members would
be appointed by Gingrich and by Sen. Trent Lott, the majority
leader, who is also a supporter of the status quo, it was unclear
what the commission would come up with.
The two other leading bipartisan overhaul proposals are the
Shays-Meehan legislation and a proposal crafted by a group of House
freshmen. A difference between the bills is how they deal with
unregulated money.
The Shays-Meehan bill would effectively ban unregulated
contributions in federal elections by prohibiting such donations to
the national parties and by prohibiting state parties from using
unregulated money for any activity that could benefit a federal
candidate, including registration and get-out-the vote drives.
The bill drafted by the freshmen would ban the national
political parties and federal candidates from raising money through
unregulated contributions. State political parties could raise and
use such contributions but not transfer them between states.
A number of advocates of overhaul say they will vote for the
Shays-Meehan legislation and then fall back to the freshman bill if
their first choice does not gain a 218-vote majority.
Shays says that he has more than 200 votes and that he and
Meehan are trying to woo as many as 60 undecided lawmakers.
Rep. Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., who is the House minority leader, is
also trying to unite Democrats around Shays's legislation. His vote
counters say the Democratic holdouts are, for the most part, either
minority lawmakers concerned about get-out-the-vote drives or
anti-abortion Democrats who have been swayed by the National Right
to Life Committee, which fiercely opposes spending and advertising
restrictions.
Republians face a different choice: whether to split with their
party and join forces with the small group of Republicans who want
to change Washington politics. Rep. Zach Wamp, R-Tenn., who favors
overhaul, predicted that more of his colleagues than expected might
do so rather than cast an election-year vote to stop change.
BOSTON Forget about giving Mike Piazza a bat and Pedro
Martinez a baseball to settle their continuing dispute about
Martinez's inside fastball that plunked Piazza in the left hand on
Friday night.
Just rent out Madison Square Garden, hand each player a
microphone and let Vince McMahon be the promoter. This verbal
skirmish about whether Martinez intended to hit Piazza has all the
earmarks of professional wrestling.
The fierce animosity between Piazza and Martinez escalated
Sunday after Piazza, the Mets' catcher, chastised Martinez, the Red
Sox pitcher, for lacking decorum in uttering two expletives in
reference to him in an interview for Sunday's Boston Herald. A
perturbed Martinez countered by insisting that he has more class
than Piazza, who comes from a wealthy background.
Martinez fired back with words as biting as one of his chin-high
fastballs and made reference to Piazza's perennially hefty bank
account.
Piazza, who has been out of the lineup since suffering the
bruised hand and was not scheduled to start Sunday night, accused
Martinez of trying to obscure the fact that he cursed in an
interview to be published in a paper that children might read.
Martinez agreed that expletives are not proper language for
publication.
It is hard to imagine that Piazza and Martinez were teammates
with the Dodgers for part of 1992 and all of 1993. After Martinez
hit Piazza with a 2-2 pitch and first base open in the first inning
on Friday, Piazza intimated strongly that he had been a target.
The innuendo bothered Martinez, who is notorious for throwing
inside at hitters and does not dispute the reputation.
Of course, that prompted an angry response from Piazza. Standing
in the cramped clubhouse at Fenway Park before Sunday night's game
against the Red Sox, Piazza speculated that Martinez's sensitivity
about the subject might be evidence that he had thrown at him on
purpose. Keeping with the World Wrestling Federation theme, Piazza
even challenged Martinez to journey the 200 yards across Fenway to
locate him.
Despite the mutual hostility, Piazza and Martinez both said they
did not have previous problems with each other. Both said they had
few encounters off the field when they were teammates.
Martinez conceded he has thrown at hitters, but only after one
of his teammates, as Piazza used to be, was already hit.
Essentially, that is what Piazza was hinting at on Friday, even
though no Red Sox were hit and it was the first game of the season
between the New York and Boston.
Piazza was surprised that Martinez used profanities and
surprised that Martinez sounded so defensive Sunday. The catcher
then tweaked Martinez a final time before the two players and the
two teams part for the rest of the regular season.
From Tibetan Buddhists to Roman Catholics to evangelical
Christians, a broad array of religious leaders is urging President
Clinton to use his summit meeting later this month in Beijing to
press the Chinese government to end the repression of religious
believers there.
Religious persecution abroad has increasingly become a major
cause of concern among members of the U.S. clergy, many of whom say
that China is one of the most consistent violators of religious
freedom. Now rights advocates long concerned about the Chinese
occupation of Tibet have joined forces with Christian clergy
pushing for more freedom for Chinese churchgoers.
More than 200 U.S. religious leaders have signed a letter to the
president asking him to put pressure on the Chinese government to
release all religious prisoners, to rescind decrees forcing
Christian churches to register with the government, and to open
negotiations about the future of Tibet with the Dalai Lama, the
Tibetan Buddhists' exiled leader.
The letter, drafted by the Center for Jewish and Christian
Values in Washington, is signed by people whose names rarely appear
on the same page. They include two Roman Catholic cardinals and
more than a dozen bishops, a spokesman for the Church of
Scientology, Reform and Orthodox rabbis, evangelical Christian
ministers and broadcasters, Muslims, Tibetan Buddhists, and a wide
range of other religious leaders.
For most of the last decade, Cisco Systems Inc. has been
steamrolling competitors in data networking. Its routers and
switches dominate the Internet and corporate networks that try to
get disparate sorts of computers to talk to each other.
It holds a 70 percent market share in routers and related
products, and the company's $79.3 billion value in the stock market
is more than four times the combined stock market value of its main
rivals: 3Com Corp., Bay Networks Inc. and Cabletron Systems Inc.
But lately, Cisco is on a collision course with a set of new,
much bigger competitors. Companies that have made their livelihoods
selling gear to the telephone industries are intent on moving into
Cisco's market.
These companies contend that their long experience in running
dedicated-circuit voice networks gives them an edge over Cisco,
which has specialized in sending data as packets distributed over a
variety of pathways between routers, the traffic controllers of the
Internet.
The most prominent of these new rivals are Lucent Technologies,
the spinoff of ATT Corp. that includes Bell Labs, and Northern
Telecom of Canada, Lucent's chief competitor in the supply of
conventional switches and other equipment for telephone networks.
Not only do they have the heft Lucent has three times the
annual revenue of Cisco but they also have the motivation. They
realize that the market for the equipment they have been selling,
which relies on setting up dedicated paths, or circuits, for each
communication, is quickly becoming doomed.
In the future, this dedicated-circuit approach, known as circuit
switching, seems destined to be replaced by more efficient and
economical packet-switching technology on which the Internet (and
Cisco's business) is based.
To overcome Cisco's leadership in data networking, Lucent and
Northern Telecom will be counting on their ability to transfer the
characteristics of voice network technology to data networks.
Yet Lucent and Nortel are still very much newcomers. Only this
month will Lucent begin testing its first billion-bits-a-second
packet switch based on Internet protocols, which could become a
true competitor to Cisco's most advanced gear.
Northern Telecom, for its part, derived only $785 million of its
$15.4 billion in revenue last year from data networking; it has a
long way to go to be on an equal footing with Cisco.
But then, in this transition from the old world architecture of
circuit switching to the new world of packet switching, it is not
altogether certain that Cisco plans to slug it out with Nortel and
Lucent.
Cisco's chairman, John Chambers reportedly broke off intensive
talks with Lucent about some sort of partnership because the two
companies' product lines had begun to overlap too closely. Now, he
is said to be bent on concluding an alliance with Nortel, which
could take advantage of its strengths in sales and service in the
telephone industry.
But the impulse to form new data networking alliances is not
Cisco's alone. Last week, the data-switch maker Tellabs announced
plans to acquire Ciena Corp., a high-flying supplier of a new
technology that vastly expands the capacity of fiber backbones, for
$7.5 billion.
And a day later, another digital switch maker, DSC
Communications, agreed to be acquired for $4.4 billion in stock by
Alcatel Alsthom of France a telecommunications equipment giant
that wants to expand its American presence.
So Cisco may find it increasingly difficult to steamroll the
competition. Last week, when Sprint announced plans for its
national network to evolve from circuit switching to packet
switching, attention centered on the fact that the key new pieces
of equipment for chopping voice, video and other data into
fixed-size packets would come from Cisco, and not from a
telecommunications vendor like Lucent.
But Cisco's gear, when ready, will only be found on the edge of
this new- era network. At its core will be data switches from the
Japanese giant NEC and, oh yes, from Nortel. 
NEW YORK The owner of a Brooklyn sweater factory who had
accused Liz Claiborne and the United States' leading
garment-industry union of conspiring to destroy his business has
died of a heart attack at his home in Monsey, according to his
lawyers.
Shraga Newhouse, 50 years old and the father of 10 children, was
the president and majority stockholder of Mademoiselle Knitwear.
The company filed a $90 million lawsuit last month against Liz
Claiborne and the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Employees, known as Unite.
The lawsuit contended that Claiborne had fraudulently schemed to
avoid a commitment to provide work to the Brooklyn company, which
filed for bankruptcy when Claiborne's orders stopped.
The lawsuit also contended that the union had participated in
that scheme by abandoning an arbitration claim it had filed against
Claiborne on behalf of Mademoiselle's workers; in exchange,
Mademoiselle said, the union got a new collective bargaining
agreement that required Claiborne to pay the union a minimum of $13
million.
A team of Rutgers University researchers hired by the New Jersey
government to examine the effects of the state's new welfare policy
found that it has contributed to an increase in abortions, but the
state has rejected the findings, and asked for revisions of the
report.
In a December report, commissioned by the state Department of
Human Services and the federal Department of Health and Human
Services and obtained by The New York Times, the Rutgers
researchers said the welfare overhaul provision known as the family
cap, which was enacted in 1992 and cuts off extra benefits from
welfare recipients who have additional children, has caused some
women to abort their pregnancies.
Welfare recipients generally have abortions at a higher rate
than other women: In New Jersey, in the quarter ending December
1991, the abortion rate for the welfare population was 27 per 1,000
compared with 4 per 1,000 for all New Jersey women of child-bearing
age. And although the abortion rate in New Jersey, and nationwide,
declined between 1991 and 1996, the abortion rate among New
Jersey's welfare recipients rose during the same period. By 1996,
the Rutgers report found, the gap had widened further, with 29
abortions per 1,000 women receiving welfare, compared with 3 per
1,000 women in the general population.
But the state has not accepted those findings, calling the
report a draft that needs substantial revision.
In a May 14 letter to the research team, the Department of Human
Services said the document should be labeled a draft, criticized
the methodology and asked for a reworking that would explain all
the difficulties of determining whether it was the welfare policy
that had caused the increase in abortions. The letter also
questioned the validity of studying the behavior of the welfare
population before and after the law changed, since the changes
themselves may have altered that population, causing some
recipients to get off welfare, and other people to avoid it.
Jacqueline Tencza, a spokeswoman for the state Department of
Human Services, denied that interpretation. Rather, she said, the
state is committed to understanding what effects the family cap has
had, and is concerned about the release of draft findings based on
a methodology that the state says is flawed.
The question of how welfare recipients' reproductive decisions
are affected by a family cap, removing any financial incentive to
have more children, has been one of the most hotly argued issues in
the debate over welfare.
Some conservatives have argued that family caps help discourage
welfare recipients from having more babies than they can support,
and prevent long-term welfare dependency. But in an unusual
political alliance, the Catholic Church and conservative Christian
groups joined with advocates for the poor to argue against family
caps, on the ground that they would encourage abortion and increase
child poverty by forcing welfare families to stretch their meager
benefits too far.
New Jersey's family cap went into effect in 1993, under a
federal waiver allowing the state to conduct welfare experiments.
Two years later, the federal welfare overhaul bill opened the way
for any state to adopt such a policy, and currently family caps are
in effect in 20 other states.
Last year, Ms. Davis' group, along with the American Civil
Liberties Union of New Jersey and Gibbons Del Deo, a New Jersey law
firm, filed suit charging that the family cap violated the state
constitution by interfering with women's reproductive rights and
treated children differently depending on their birth status.
In late February, in the course of preparing a summary judgment
motion in the case, Ms. Davis said, the lawyers asked the state
whether the final report from Rutgers, which had been long
scheduled for release in December, was available.
A lawyer in the attorney general's office gave them a copy of
the December report, which they shared with representatives of the
Catholic Church and others who oppose the family cap at a May 12
meeting. Ms. Davis said the lawyers challenging the cap had also
asked for, and been granted, permission to talk to the Rutgers
researchers.
But, she said, on May 14 the same day the department's letter
went out to the researchers the attorney general's office called
to say that the report was only a draft and to withdraw permission
to talk to the researchers.
Ms. Tencza said there were no political machinations involved:
Discussions of the methodology had gone on since the report was
filed, she said, and the May 14 letter only reflected continuing
discussions. And she said that the lawyer for the attorney
general's office who gave out the report was simply unaware that it
was a draft.
The letter specifically questioned the researchers' use of
trends in abortion and birth rates to estimate what those rates
might have been without the welfare changes, and the suggestion
that the welfare changes may have caused the difference. And it
said that the researchers need not redo the study, but should
submit a revised version in three weeks, making clear the
difficulties of determining causality.
Michael Camasso, the lead researcher on the $1 million
evaluation project, declined to discuss the specifics of the
December report or the re-working now under way.
The December report is not the first part of the family-cap
research to have its release delayed. In an interim report,
completed in 1996, the same Rutgers team found that while birth
rates among New Jersey welfare recipients had declined by more than
20 percent since the family cap law went into effect, the decline
was the same among those who forfeited extra benefits as among a
control group of women who were allowed to keep extra benefits for
their newborns. That report was released more than a year later,
only when the lawyers challenging the policy obtained it from the
federal government under a Freedom of Information Act request.
NEW YORK In an ambitious and controversial effort to increase
the number of welfare recipients participating in New York City's
workfare program, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani will soon begin requiring
physically and mentally disabled mothers to work for their welfare
checks.
The new policy began quietly this weekend when city officials
ordered about 800 disabled women to report to welfare offices for
screening into the new 20-hour-a-week workfare program.
The women, who showed up at city offices clutching plastic pill
bottles and crumpled medical forms on Saturday, had already been
examined by city doctors who classified them as permanently or
temporarily unemployable since they suffer from chronic seizures,
mental illness, severe arthritis and other ailments.
But under the new rules, the mothers will be required to work in
jobs tailored to their specific impairments by nonprofit groups
accustomed to working with the disabled, including Goodwill
Industries of Greater New York. Women who cannot walk, for
instance, might type or stuff envelopes. Only those women with
disabilities severe enough to qualify for federal disability
benefits will be exempt.
City officials say the old system, which allowed the disabled to
stay home until city doctors certified that they could work, denied
job training, work experience and career counseling to people who
desperately needed those services.
State officials, who will help finance and oversee the new
program, say about 12,000 disabled mothers will participate in
workfare initially, with the first group starting in two months.
The remaining 21,000 disabled welfare mothers may follow if the
program works well, city officials say.
But the shift in policy, which comes five months after Giuliani
vowed to move virtually all of the city's welfare recipients into
workfare jobs, was quickly condemned by advocates for the poor, who
said it violates state law and endangers the lives of the sickest
and most vulnerable New Yorkers.
The clash between advocates and city officials over the issue
marks only the beginning of a contentious debate that will likely
land in civil court, and one that already swirls across much of the
nation as states like Florida, Oregon and Wisconsin push disabled
people on public assistance into the workplace.
Under federal law, mothers on public assistance can receive
welfare checks for only five years, regardless of whether they are
disabled or not. State officials may exempt 20 percent of their
welfare mothers from the time limit, but many are still pushing as
many women into work as they can, fearful that more than 20 percent
will still need benefits when the deadline hits.
In New York City, where welfare officials have been sued for
assigning people with less serious medical ailments to workfare
jobs that threaten their health, advocates for the poor found the
new policy particularly alarming.
Last month, a state judge ordered the city to create a process
that would allow welfare recipients to challenge work assignments
for health and safety reasons. But that process would apply to
welfare recipients without severe medical problems, workers with
asthma who can answer telephones but cannot scrub dusty garages,
for instance. This group is classified as employable, but with
limitations.
The city's new policy is directed toward a group that city
doctors say are actually unable to work, and advocates say it will
be impossible to find suitable work for this group. About 4,000
welfare mothers have been deemed permanently unemployable by the
city's medical contractor, Health Services Systems. About 30,000
have been classified as temporarily unemployable, meaning they
cannot work for three to six months.
They are young women like Daisy Rivera, 28, who was deemed
permanently unemployable because she suffers from severe asthma and
weighs 400 pounds. They are older women like Evelyn Valle, 39, who
hobbled to the welfare office, leaning hard on a scratched wooden
cane because of the arthritis in her hip. Or like Aglaee Muniz, 57,
who takes medication for severe depression and diabetes and was
also classified as permanently unable to work.
City officials say the new program has been carefully planned to
meet the needs of this population, which was unable to participate
in the traditional workfare program along with the 32,000 current
participants. The work sites will be chosen by officials at four
groups, Goodwill Industries, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community
Service, the National Center for Disability Services and the
Federation Employment and Guidance Service, who will safeguard the
health and safety of the new workers.
All told, the groups must place at least 228 mothers in
unsubsidized jobs for at least 90 days by March 1999.
On Saturday, caseworkers for the four groups used a two-page
questionnaire to screen hundreds of mothers, who were either
temporarily disabled or permanently disabled women who had been
denied federal disability benefits.
Those with serious disabilities were given an appointment for a
more complete evaluation, which will be reviewed by the State
Office of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals With
Disabilities. Most of those women will ultimately work 20 hours a
week for three months, and 35 hours a week after that, while
receiving career counseling, job search training and other
services. Twenty other New York counties, including Westchester and
Onondaga, also received state financing for similar programs.
Those welfare recipients who are determined to lack serious
disabilities will be re-examined by city doctors and may eventually
end up in the traditional workfare program, although they can
appeal that decision, city officials said. And those with the most
severe medical problems will be told to apply for federal
disability benefits.
No one knows how smoothly the new process will work. Advocates
for the poor in Wisconsin, which has also eliminated broad work
exemptions for the disabled, said they have not encountered
widespread problems. Jason Turner, the recently appointed chief of
New York City's welfare agency, was the architect of that state's
welfare program.
But the sheer size of New York City's welfare population makes
the job infinitely more complex. Wisconsin has only about 9,000
adults on public assistance statewide, while New York City has
about 200,000 mothers on welfare, including the 33,000 disabled
women.
Hundreds of those women filled the waiting rooms of the city's
welfare offices on Saturday, sitting on hard, plastic chairs as
they thumbed through plastic bags and time-worn envelopes for their
medical records. Most seemed stunned to learn that they were going
to work after city doctors had told them that they could not.
Excuse David Cone if, deep down, he never saw the humor in his
recent run-in with an impish Jack Russell terrier with a serious
overbite.
Confidence, not comedy, is what counts, especially at this point
in the career of a veteran pitcher.
When you're 35, with more great years behind you than ahead of
you, even a 7-1 record doesn't always bring peace. Losing a
starting assignment because of a freak injury certainly doesn't,
not when every tweak and tinge increasingly serves as a reminder of
one's mortality.
So don't assume that the bite that took a chunk out of Cone's
index finger and out of the Yankees' rotation, and cost Cone a
start last Tuesday, was in any way humorous to him. Not when his
reality includes mandatory pitch counts and salary incentives tied
to innings totals that are no longer sure things.
The setback put Cone in a fury. And the only way to assuage that
fury, as well as stem the torrent of bad jokes, was to pitch well.
Sunday the Florida Marlins were the unwitting victims of that
resolve, learning that the pedigree of the pitcher, not the dog,
was what truly counted. Cone roared back to the forefront of the
Yankees' impressive rotation, pitching a 14-strikeout complete game
and not only beating the Marlins, 4-1, but beating a pack of his
own demons.
Thus his intense lobbying after the eighth inning, the only one
in which the Marlins managed a run. The overmatched youngsters from
the decimated World Series champions had broken through when Cone
issued a two-out walk to second baseman Craig Counsell, then a
run-scoring double to Florida's burgeoning gem, Todd Dunwoody.
The double, which deeply disappointed Cone, also drove him. He
all but begged for the right to pitch the ninth inning. Torre, his
team about to go 31 games over .500, did not need that much
convincing. The Yankees had a three-run lead, Cone had shown the
necessary heart, as always, and Torre did not hesitate in showing
loyalty.
Such is the nature of even the most competent and proven. They,
too, need to be convinced. Especially when the career path is as
pocked as Cone's has been in recent years. His injuries seem as
plentiful as they are peculiar. Surgeries were performed on the
pitcher's shoulder to correct an aneurysm in 1996 and to clean out
the debris caused by wear and tear in '97.
Cone sought to put more serious issues to bed as well Sunday.
For the relentless setbacks of the last few years have prevented
Cone from regaining his Cy Young-caliber touch. That had caused
more doubts than one little nip could. This Cone knows; his
teammates know it, too.
It is a bit disconcerting to hear a pitcher talk about needing
the boost of confidence after watching him master a team, even one
so flailing as the Marlins, losers of 11 straight.
And there he was, clinging to his first complete-game victory
since May 1996 as if it were a life preserver, needing a boost of
confidence only he could provide for himself.
DETROIT Mixing his usual candor with a little diplomacy, coach
Ron Wilson of the Washington Capitals was evaluating how his team
came to find itself in the Stanley Cup finals against the defending
champion, Detroit.
Along with their history of eliminating the Washington team, the
Flyers, Devils and Penguins were the top three seeded teams in the
Eastern Conference. Instead of playing any of them, the
fourth-seeded Capitals faced Boston, Ottawa and Buffalo.
Now, beginning here Tuesday night in Joe Louis Arena, the
Capitals meet the Western Conference champion Detroit Red Wings,
who will be making their third appearance in four seasons in the
championship round. With the possible exception of the goalie
position, the Red Wings seem to match up stronger than the Capitals
in talent and depth.
A four-game sweep would continue a trend. Since the New York
Rangers needed seven games to eliminate the Vancouver Canucks in
the 1994 finals, the next three championships have been four-game
minimums: the Devils over the Wings in 1995, Colorado over Florida
in 1996 and the Wings over the Flyers in 1997.
Should this season's final go seven games, the last would be on
June 23, after the official start of summer. Except for the
lockout-delayed season that ended on June 24, 1995, no Stanley Cup
final has ended later than June 14. Among the reasons for this long
season are the 16-day Olympic break in February, the four-day
All-Star Game break in January and the extra off days during the
playoffs to accommodate television. These and other factors have
resulted in dwindling ratings, poor ice and fan apathy in even some
of hockey's bedrock cities.
There is no lack of interest here. Cars, buildings and statues
are decorated in the red and white of the home team. Not since the
1950s have Detroiters enjoyed as much hockey success as the Wings
have had under coach Scotty Bowman, who took over in 1993.
The team is experienced and balanced with skilled scorers and
diligent checkers. In eliminating the regular-season champion
Dallas Stars in six games in Round 3, the Red Wings survived a big,
mean team that tried to intimidate them.
The Capitals are not as nasty, although the churlish threesome
of Dale Hunter, Chris Simon and Craig Berube provides a hint of the
Crash Line element that proved disconcerting to the Wings when they
were swept by the Devils three years ago.
The big hitter of the Capitals defense is Mark Tinordi, who has
had a few days to recover from the leg injury that slowed him at
the end of the previous round. The eternal Esa Tikkanen, a forward
who seems to show up with different playoff contenders every year,
also might help.
Tikkanen is especially valuable as a shadow checker, as he was
in the second round against Ottawa's Aleksei Yashin. He might cover
Detroit's Sergei Fedorov, who leads the league in post-season goals
with nine.
The Capitals get much of their offense from two lines: the
Collegians and the Europeans. The collegians are Adam Oates, Joe
Juneau and Brian Bellows. Both Oates and Juneau attended Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute, although Bellows is not a college man. The
Europeans are Peter Bondra, Andrei Nikolishin and Richard Zednik.
Oates leads his team in playoff points with 14. A former Red
Wing, Oates is one of the league's most creative passers. The best
attacker of the defense is Sergei Gonchar, who has 7 goals in the
tournament.
In goal, Washington's Olaf Kolzig has the best goals-against
average: 1.69 a game. Detroit's goalie, Chris Osgood, is capable of
shutting out a team and also capable of squandering a lead or a tie
on a wishful shot from center ice. At this level, all goalies are
capable of shutouts, especially those who play for great teams. But
few give up two goals from center ice in the same spring. And
Osgood's clearing passes are frequently intercepted.
If Detroit has a weak link, it is Osgood, but his supporting
cast is too strong to fail as a group. Nicklas Lidstrom leads the
attacking defensemen. Slava Fetisov, Larry Murphy, Bob Rouse and
Jamie Macoun fill out an aging but steady blue-line crew. Among the
best two-way wing men, Darren McCarty and Martin Lapointe hit first
and score second.
At the high end, Fedorov is the most skilled, although Steve
Yzerman leads the team in points with 20. Fedorov, Yzerman and Igor
Larionov are among the sport's most complete centers.
Should the Wings win the Cup it would be Bowman's eighth, tying
him with his mentor, Toe Blake. Absent a monumental upset, it will
be rings for the Wings. 
ELMONT, N.Y. For the second year in a row, the business of
horse racing was saved by, of all things, a horse and a race. Not
by a marketing plan or an advertising campaign or a creative
department.
The horse was Real Quiet, the race was the Belmont Stakes, the
plot was high drama: would Real Quiet, winner of the Kentucky Derby
and the Preakness, also win the Belmont Stakes and become the 12th
horse in history to win the Triple Crown? Or would he become the
14th horse to lose on the lip of history?
To watch the drama unfold, a crowd of 80,162 went to Belmont
Park on a brilliantly sunny afternoon. It was the second largest
crowd to watch a race at Belmont and the largest in 27 years, since
Canonero II tried (and failed) to complete his Triple Crown sweep
before 82,694. And the multitudes on Saturday saw a classic race:
Real Quiet opening a four-length lead in the homestretch but, with
his Triple Crown within reach, struggling to withstand his
weariness and his challenger, Victory Gallop, who streaked up
alongside him for one more duel.
You could not have scripted it any better. In the Kentucky
Derby, it was Real Quiet by half a length over Victory Gallop. In
the Preakness, by 2\ lengths. And now, it was Victory Gallop
reversing recent history and winning the Belmont by one bob of the
head.
Smith was there Saturday with the 80,162 fans who saw the race
of their lives. They even bet large amounts of money: $9.3 million
at Belmont Park, the second largest amount ever recorded there, and
$55 million from all sources, far and near, the most since last
year's Belmont Stakes.
This is far-fetched and, worse, it takes racing on the low road
to salvation. Maybe there is no high road to reach gamblers, but
maybe that's questionable, too. Why make your pitch to common
gamblers when you're trying to rescue a sport from extinction?
Nobody sensed the true meaning of Belmont Day better than James
Bond, the trainer of Raffie's Majesty, who finished fifth while the
stars of the cast were staging their memorable duel.
Bob Baffert, the trainer of Silver Charm last year and Real
Quiet this year, both dramatic Triple Crown losers, defines the
product correctly. For all the glory of his Triple Crown classics,
he still hasn't won in eight starts on New York tracks. But he
insists that's the nature of the game.
Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, fractured his ankle
playing pick-up basketball last week and had to tend his horse on
crutches. He even enlisted a superstar trainer, Bill Mott, to
saddle Victory Gallop in the paddock for the Belmont, so give Mott
an assist. Walden doesn't miss the point, either.
But they had better hurry. In the last six months, racing has
lost two of its best tracks: Arlington Park in Chicago and Atlantic
City. Can slot machines be far behind?
Maybe you can't count on the enormous pull of the Belmont Stakes
to solve all your problems day by day. But how can you not start
with those 80,162 fans, the national television audience and those
two brave horses who carried the racing business into the minds and
wallets of America?
In the banking industry's latest megamerger, Norwest Corp. of
Minneapolis and Wells Fargo Co. of San Francisco plan to join
forces and may announce the $34 billion deal as early as Monday,
according to people close to both companies.
Although the transaction is structured as a so-called merger of
equals, Norwest's chief executive, Richard Kovacevich, will run the
combined company as chief executive while Wells' chief executive,
Paul Hazen, will relinquish that post.
The new bank will be based in San Francisco and retain the Wells
Fargo name. With combined assets of $185 billion, it will rank as
the sixth-largest bank in the United States if all other bank
mergers announced this year are completed.
The logic of the merger follows a now familiar pattern: Many
banks, stuck in an industry with little revenue growth and
heightened competition from brokerage firms, mutual funds and
credit-card companies, see size as a solution to their woes.
Bulking up, banks believe, will enable them to become more
profitable by dominating certain markets and enjoying greater
economies of scale.
It is the latest in a string of bank-related blockbusters this
year that have surprised Wall Street, including the mergers of
Citicorp and Travelers Group, BankAmerica Corp. and Nationsbank
Corp. and First Chicago NBD and Banc One Corp.
Kovacevich, considered to be one of the most disciplined and
talented executives in banking, said in a recent interview that he
felt no need to merge with another bank and that he found the
recent prices being paid for banks to be exorbitant.
On the other hand, Kovacevich has said he would buy another bank
if the price was right, and in this case it apparently was. Norwest
will exchange about 10 shares for each Wells share, representing a
premium of only about 10 percent to Wells' closing stock price on
Friday.
Big Wells investors, such as Warren Buffett, were apparently
willing to accept a slim takeover premium based on the combined
company's prospects. As of last December, Buffett owned 7.87
percent of the company.
Wells would have been unthinkable as a takeover target a few
years ago, when it emerged as the victor in a hotly contested
battle for First Interstate Corp. of Los Angeles, but Wells botched
the integration of the two banks. That cost Wells precious profits
and customers, and brought Hazen, long considered a skilled
manager, some unaccustomed criticism from analysts and Wall Street.
And it left Wells vulnerable.
Last Friday, Wells Fargo's shares rose 3 percent, or $10.75, to
$363.25, on optimism that profit growth will accelerate as the bank
builds revenue with little increase in expenses, along with
speculation that Wells Fargo might be in talks.
Like most Triple Crown hopefuls who fail in the Belmont Stakes,
Real Quiet was undone by the unusual length of the race here
Saturday, losing a four-length lead in the final furlong to be
nosed out by Victory Gallop.
If the Belmont were a mile and a quarter, a Triple Crown
wouldn't be such a rarity.
Real Quiet and jockey Kent Desormeaux led the field into the
homestretch but hit the marathoners' wall and staggered through a
26.34-second final quarter. Of the 14 horses who lost Triple Crowns
in the Belmont, nine had a final split slower than 26 seconds.
Of the 10 horses who completed Triple Crowns in the Belmont
since the race went to 1{ miles, eight went 26 seconds or faster.
There's the irony of the Belmont: The defining moment of these
horses' careers, the difference between winning and losing a
$5-million Triple Crown bonus, is a race at a distance completely
out of line with the rest of the U.S. stakes schedule.
Baffert and Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, will scan
that schedule for their colts' next starts, with a rematch of the
Kentucky Derby, Preakness and Belmont quinella horses a
possibility.
Walden said he's looking at the $1 million Haskell Invitational
for 3-year-olds at Monmouth Park (N.J.) on Aug. 9, and Victory
Gallop could go on to the $750,000 Travers for 3-year-olds at
Saratoga in upstate New York on Aug. 29.
Baffert, who isn't much for long-range planning, said Real Quiet
could go to the Travers or face older horses for the first time in
the Pacific Classic at Del Mar on Aug. 15. Three-year-old Best Pal
won the $1-million race in 1991.
The trainer said Real Quiet could even go in the $500,000 Swaps
Stakes at Hollywood Park on July 19.
More likely, Real Quiet will go to the Travers and Baffert will
run 4-year-old Silver Charm in the Pacific Classic. Silver Charm is
at Churchill Downs training for the $750,000 Stephen Foster
Handicap on Sunday.
The long-awaited meeting of Silver Charm and Skip Away could
come in the Pacific Classic. First, Skip Away is aiming for the $1
million Hollywood Gold Cup against Gentlemen on June 28.
Meanwhile, Baffert said he hasn't chosen a next race for Indian
Charlie, the Santa Anita Derby winner who ran third in the Kentucky
Derby.
Real Quiet flew out of New York Sunday morning and will be at
Churchill, Baffert said, probably until the season ends there June
28. Then he will go home to California.
The Triple Crown vanished Saturday just the way history said it
might. Real Quiet didn't lose by a nose, he lost by a quarter-mile.
ALBANY, N.Y. The high cost of auto insurance, an issue that
nearly cost Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey her job last year,
appears on the verge of becoming a major theme in New York's
gubernatorial campaign, with Democrats blaming Gov. George Pataki
for high rates.
Now that New Jersey has mandated a 15 percent cut in rates, New
York is about to overtake its neighbor as the state with the
nation's highest auto insurance premiums, having risen from sixth
place since 1993. Some Democratic strategists say that New York's
dubious new ranking could help give the issue the same political
potency here that it proved to have last year in New Jersey.
All four Democratic candidates for governor have recently begun
attacking Pataki, a Republican, over auto insurance prices, and the
two front-runners in the polls, Peter Vallone, the New York City
Council speaker, and Lt. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, plan to release
within the next few days their own plans for lowering rates.
Insurance companies make for easy political targets, as attacks
on health insurers across the country have shown. For the Democrats
in New York, taking on auto insurers has the added benefit of
playing into their claims that Pataki has been too cozy with big
business.
But a report released last week by the majority Democrats in the
state Assembly gave fresh ammunition to the challengers. It says
that during the 1990s, rates and insurance company profits have
risen much faster in New York than in the nation as a whole, and it
blames Pataki, whose administration has approved each rate
increase.
The average auto insurance policy in New York cost $705 in 1990.
It rose under Gov. Mario Cuomo, a Democrat, to $870 in 1994, the
year Pataki was elected. And it continued to climb under the new
governor, to $960 in 1996, up 36 percent in six years. The average
rate dropped last year to $954, and appears headed for another
small decline this year.
Neil D. Levin, who was appointed state insurance superintendent
by Pataki, responded to the report by saying that the competitive
forces of the market should be allowed to determine rates.
The Assembly Democrats said that in the two weeks remaining in
this year's legislative session they would seek passage of several
laws that they said would cut rates by more than 21 percent, like
antifraud measures, the appointment of a consumer advocate to
contest proposed rate increases, and the creation of a toll-free
number to help customers comparison-shop among insurers.
The Democrats have considerable leverage because some auto
insurance laws that the governor and the industry favor are set to
expire this summer, and the Democrats could withhold renewal of
those laws unless their proposals are enacted.
Grannis said the Assembly would not try to legislate a specific
rate reduction, as New Jersey lawmakers have, for fear of roiling
what is now a fairly stable, profitable market. Some insurers have
abandoned the New Jersey market, contending that it is too
difficult to make a profit there.
In last year's New Jersey race, state Sen. James McGreevey, a
Democrat, found a vast untapped well of resentment over the state's
high rates. He exploited it so well against Whitman, a Republican
to whom Pataki is often compared, that despite being little-known
when the campaign began, he narrowly missed defeating her in
November.
CLIFFSIDE PARK, N.J. The initial shock has worn off, a
schoolteacher named Joung Pyo Jyoung said Sunday, but she still
marvels at how Kim Dae Jung, the longtime dissident, came to be
elected president of South Korea, her homeland.
Ms. Jyoung was hardly the only one here to express amazement at
a political odyssey that can be compared to the ultimate triumphs
of Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Vaclav Havel of the Czech
Republic and other champions of lost causes.
Successive South Korean dictators tried to have Kim killed,
coming extremely close more than once. In 1980, the military regime
then in charge sentenced him to the gallows, but chose instead to
send him into exile in the United States. Even after he returned
home in 1985, and after South Korea then nurtured a fledgling
democracy, he seemed destined to spend the rest of his years in
permanent opposition.
But there he was Sunday, his country's leader since February,
walking triumphantly into the banquet hall with a slight limp, the
legacy of one of those assassination attempts.
A Roman Catholic, he told of how after his election he had
called on Cardinal Stephen Kim Sou Hwan, South Korea's Roman
Catholic prelate. The cardinal, he said, had observed that his
election should stand as a model to young Koreans of how
perseverance can lead to success.
Kim, 74, seemed to enjoy wading through the crowd and shaking
hands with the Korean-Americans, many of whom had left South Korea
20 or 30 years ago but still had deep emotional and economic ties
to their homeland.
He was applauded warmly and often by the guests for the most
part business people, academics and clergy who came from New York
City or from this part of Bergen County where thousands of
Korean-Americans have settled. He was also ardently praised as a
fighter for democracy by Sen. Robert Torricelli of New Jersey.
But there was an underlying restraint. It was a sharp contrast
to the emotional outbursts that Kim, a gifted speaker, is capable
of producing.
Some who came to the Palisadium banquet hall, on the Hudson
River, said they would probably not have voted for him if they had
had the chance. They were not sure at first, they said, that he was
the right person to guide the country through its most serious
financial crisis in decades. Like millions of South Koreans, they
had long heard military-dominated governments denounce Kim as an
irresponsible populist.
But now, in his fourth month in office, he seems to have won
over even the skeptics. And if the applause was not boisterous, it
was nonetheless ample. The most frequently expressed opinion was
that Kim had thus far handled the crisis well.
Kim arrived on Saturday and stayed overnight at the
Intercontinental Hotel in New York under tight security, which was
equally intense in Cliffside Park. In the morning, he attended Mass
at St. Patrick's Cathedral, and met with Cardinal John O'Connor
afterward.
On Sunday evening, he was honored at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art in New York, where he helped dedicate a new gallery of Korean
art. On Monday, Kim is scheduled to visit the New York Stock
Exchange, where he can be counted on to underline a likely theme of
this visit: reassurance to foreign investors. After New York, he
goes to Washington for meetings with President Clinton and a speech
to Congress, before journeying on to Los Angeles.
CHICAGO Indulge me while I clear out the Belmont Stakes
residue, but I do not see Michael Jordan and the Bulls fading in
the homestretch with another Triple Crown now in sight.
First of all, the trailer has to believe it has the ability to
catch up, but from the sight of the Utah Jazz in the second half
here Sunday night, what we appear to have on our hands is a
pre-race favorite running without faith.
The Jazz didn't just quit Game 3 of the National Basketball
Association finals. They were dismissed from it. The only mail that
was delivered was the game itself, post-marked by the Jazz, Salt
Lake City. Just when people were forecasting photo finishes between
teams rated evenly matched, the Bulls charged ahead late in the
first half and blew on like a tropical storm in a 96-54 slaughter
that gave them a 2-1 series lead.
The Jazz could have been suffering the effects of having their
grand design for this series ruined by their Game 2 loss Friday
night at home. All the more reason why this team needed to be right
back in the Bulls' faces Sunday night. They went face down on the
United Center floor instead, losing the most lopsided finals game
ever, scoring the fewest points since the shot clock rule and
fueling the notion that, deep down, they don't believe they can
beat the Bulls.
Same shots he always takes, the Jazz said. Same ones he always
makes. The problem with that rationale is that it fails to
acknowledge the psychological component of trying to wrest the
crown off Jordan's head. This is not the typical opponent. This is
not the customary setting. This is not the ordinary challenge, and
that not only goes for Malone but the entire Utah team.
In the case of its best player, from the time Malone has been
playing basketball on the national level, he has been the
quintessential outsider. First he was that muscular kid from little
Louisiana Tech, a school best known for its women's teams. For much
of his professional career, he has been looked at by many of his
peers as the Brother From Another Planet. The African-American
superstar who plays in the whitest of all NBA markets, the
down-home Louisiana guy who drives bikes and trucks, not Range
Rovers and Mercedes.
Mailman Malone stands alone, unless he's communing with John
Stockton on the pick-and-roll. That's been his message, and he has
delivered his share of politically incorrect diatribes, on subjects
ranging from Magic Johnson's popular return in 1992 (he thought it
wasn't a good idea) to the league's formerly hailed drug policy (he
thought it wasn't getting the job done). But these last two
springs, finally making it to the finals, Malone has found himself
face-to-face with the ultimate establishment icon. It has become
immeasurably difficult to have his say in the face of true
greatness.
Maybe they have been the same shots, or maybe they have been
just a step or two deeper, or maybe he's been rushing to take the
quick shot because he knows the Bulls' suffocating Eastern
Conference defense will not give him one that's better. Patrick
Ewing could tell Malone how the ball feels so much more slippery
when the Bulls are swarming, the way they were Sunday night.
Malone was determined to make a statement Sunday night, and
started to by connecting on his first six shots, remembering there
is nothing mystical about Luc Longley's slow-footed defense. Malone
scored 12 first-quarter points, but when he looked up at the
scoreboard, the Jazz had 14 and were trailing by three.
This raised another sobering issue: the Bulls' ability to
control Stockton's dribble penetration with their long-limbed
defenders. Stockton is not as quick as he used to be, and this
becomes much more noticeable against a defensive-minded Eastern
Conference team than it does against anyone out West.
Over the last six minutes of the second quarter, the Jazz's
offense devolved into the Knicks'. Malone, quiet after Dennis
Rodman relieved Longley, ran over Scottie Pippen on the break.
Bryon Russell turned a simple and uncontested inbounds pass to
Stockton into a backcourt violation. Stockton lost the ball deep in
the lane. Malone traveled in the post, then threw up an air ball in
the lane.
Get the picture? The Bulls did. Jordan and Toni Kukoc
immediately began abusing their men off the dribble. When Kukoc
penetrates the way he did Sunday night, forget it, Chicago's
sportswriters may as well begin the campaign to keep this group
together until 2010. Jordan and the 6-foot-11-inch Kukoc in the
lane with the ball are a different story than the frail Hornacek
and Stockton.
How bad did it get for Malone and Utah? He was called twice by
Hue Hollins for charging on the break against Hollins' favorite
player, Pippen. The Bulls cruised into halftime with a 49-31 lead,
by far the largest lead in the series. The second half, from the
shellshocked perception of Jerry Sloan, bordered on disgrace.
Uncontested Chicago dunks. Jordan and Pippen resting on the bench
with impish smiles that gave way to raucous laughter.
The Bulls were cruising, pulling ahead in the finals in the
backstretch. This is a team that has never been caught from behind.
NEW YORK She has been haunted by many things these last few
days. The image of a woman pleading for her life, so that her five
children would not be left motherless. The photograph of a man
twisted under a bar stool, unsuccessfully trying to shield himself
from a robber's bullet. The smirk on the lips of Darrel K. Harris
as witnesses identified him as the killer of three people at a
Brooklyn social club Club Happiness.
And there was another picture, a snapshot from the life of the
49-year-old woman, a juror in Harris' trial, who spoke briefly and
reluctantly Sunday on the condition that her name not be used.
She recalled a time when she had been sick, near death, and
terrified of leaving her teen-age son behind. So she put herself in
the shoes of the woman, Evelyn Davis, who had begged Harris not to
kill her. He stabbed her in the back, because he had used up his
bullets.
The juror said that when she began deliberating Harris' fate
four days ago, more than half the panel of five men and seven women
in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn herself included opposed
sentencing him to death.
But on Saturday morning, after turning to her Bible and praying
to her God, the juror added her voice to those who decided that
Harris should die by lethal injection. If carried out, it will be
the first execution in New York State since 1963.
Harris, a 40-year-old former correction officer, received a
citation from the city in 1987 for saving the life of a fellow
guard during a riot at a Brooklyn jail. On May 19, he was convicted
of first-degree murder in the deaths of three people at Club
Happiness, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, in December 1996.
Attorneys for Harris, describing him as a man with severe
psychological problems and an addiction to alcohol and cocaine, had
pressed jurors to spare his life.
The lawyers have already filed a motion challenging the
constitutionality of death by lethal injection, and an appeal of
the sentence is expected soon. The death penalty was reinstated in
New York in 1995.
Perhaps it will never be known exactly what led the panel to
send Harris to the death chamber. Certainly, Sunday, few on the
12-member panel wanted to repeat or reflect on what went on inside
the jury room.
Whatever their precise reasons, the sentence they rendered
appeared to have been laced with ambivalence. They deliberated for
22 hours over four days. On Friday, a court officer informed Acting
Justice Anne Feldman of flared tempers inside the jury room. On
Saturday afternoon, as the jury forewoman read the verdict, one
woman on the panel began sobbing so uncontrollably that she nearly
collapsed. Two of the jurors noted in their verdict report that
Harris had suffered from some emotional distress, though that did
not, in their minds, sufficiently mitigate the crimes for which he
was convicted.
Nor did the cool reticence that Harris maintained through the
end help his cause. When a witness who managed to escape his
rampage took the stand, Harris smiled, showing no remorse, recalled
the juror who spoke on condition of anonymity. And although his
mother testified in his behalf and his brother, an ordained
minister, asked the jury to spare his life, Harris chose not to
testify even in the sentencing phase of his trial.
Harris' lawyer, Russell Neufeld, said Sunday that he and his
client decided against testifying because the judge had ruled that
the prosecution would have the final say in stark contrast to
noncapital crimes cases, in which the defendant is allowed to
testify last.
Defense lawyers had conceded that Harris was responsible for the
murders, but not because he wanted to eliminate witnesses, as the
prosecution had argued.
Rather, the defense had argued, Harris suffered from serious
psychological problems, including those that stemmed from having
been severely beaten as a child by his mother, as well as addiction
to alcohol and cocaine. The jail riot had traumatic effects, the
defense had contended, and the city Correction Department forced
Harris to resign in 1991.
The verdict drew polar responses. Gov. George Pataki, whose 1994
campaign was based partly on support for the death penalty, and who
signed into law the measure reinstating the penalty soon after
taking office, said the sentence would send a powerful message to
criminals.
But Mario Cuomo, the former governor, who vetoed capital
punishment legislation in each of his 12 years in office, called
the verdict wrong.
BLUFF, Utah Police reopened this small San Juan River town to
traffic from the outside Sunday morning and said they would cut
back their search for two armed fugitives who are suspects in the
killing of a police officer.
Sheriff Mike Lacy of San Juan County said he made the decision
to scale back the search after Saturday brought no sightings of
Alan Pilon, 30, of Dove Creek, Colo., or Jason Wayne McVean, 26, of
Durango, Colo. The two men have been sought since May 29 as
suspects in the killing of one police officer and the shooting of
three others.
About 500 people have been looking for the fugitives, including
Navajo trackers and National Guardsmen who have provided infrared
and night-vision observation equipment.
Officers are using maps found among the suspects' belongings to
search for caves and other places they might have hidden food,
water and other supplies in the parched arroyos and canyons of the
Four Corners region of Colorado, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico. They
searched a mine on Saturday, Lacy said.
The search began in Cortez, Colo., where three men in camouflage
clothing killed a city police officer and wounded two sheriff's
deputies in the ensuing pursuit and gun battle. Last Thursday, the
search shifted to the area near Bluff when a sheriff's deputy here
was shot and one of the suspects, Robert Matthew Mason, 26, of
Durango, was found dead from a bullet wound at a campsite near
town. Authorities believe that Mason committed suicide.
Bluff was evacuated on Thursday afternoon. Residents were
allowed to return on Saturday, but outsiders were barred until 10
a.m. Sunday. Police officers continued to stand guard at roadblocks
at the four entrances to the town and asked visitors not to pick up
anyone or give anyone a ride out of town.
Galen Headley, who owns the Cadillac Ranch R.V. Park here, said
he evacuated the park but decided to stay at home instead of
spending Thursday night with the 230 other residents who left town.
WASHINGTON The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee
said Sunday that testimony to the panel last week in closed session
showed that the Chinese government had planned to influence the
1996 election.
But the chairman, Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., added that it
remained unclear whether the efforts were actually carried out. His
comments were based on testimony by Attorney General Janet Reno,
CIA Director George Tenet and FBI Director Louis Freeh.
Shelby's remarks, his first public comment on the subject,
echoed findings of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which
last year concluded that Beijing had tried to influence American
elections. But that committee, headed by Sen. Fred Thompson,
R-Tenn., also uncovered scant evidence that the plan had been
carried out.
Shelby's committee hearings last week were the first formal
congressional sessions on the China Plan, as it is known, since the
disclosure that Johnny Chung, a Democratic Party fund-raiser, had
told Justice Department investigators that a large portion of the
nearly $100,000 that he raised for the Democrats came from an
official with close ties to the Chinese army.
The money came from Liu Chaoying, a Chinese army lieutenant
colonel who also is an official of a Chinese aerospace company. Her
father was a high-ranking general and Communist Party official.
Shelby's hearings were the first of a number of planned
congressional inquiries into accusations concerning campaign
fund-raising and the Clinton administration's decision-making
process in allowing the launching of civilian American satellites
on Chinese rockets.
The Justice Department is looking into Chung's disclosures along
with whether two satellite makers Loral Space and Communications
and Hughes Electronics illegally gave China space expertise that
allowed Beijing to more accurately aim its nuclear missiles. The
issue of the transfer of technology arose after a Chinese rocket
carrying a $200 million Loral satellite was launched in China on
Feb. 15, 1996, and exploded seconds later.
China asked Loral and some experts from Hughes to conduct an
independent review of the accident. It was in the course of the
review that some administration officials raised questions about
how much information had been turned over to the Chinese.
Bernard Schwartz, the Loral chairman, contributed more than $1
million to Democratic political campaigns in the last election.
Schwartz and other Loral officials denied the donations were an
effort to influence administration decisions on Loral's satellite
deal.
Last week, the intelligence committee uncovered evidence of
conflicting views on the subject within the administration. A CIA
review concluded that the companies had not disclosed information
to China that damaged national security. But an intelligence arm of
the State Department found that the disclosure had placed American
security interests at risk.
ALBANY, N.Y. If only Bertrand Russell had known about the
meetings of the Assembly Rules Committee, he might never have had
to invent the bald king of France.
The committee does have members; indeed, its 26 Democrats and 12
Republicans make it the Legislature's largest. It also has
responsibilities, in fact, arguably more than any other Assembly
committee. During the last few frenzied weeks of a session, when
most legislation finally reaches the floor for a vote, it is up to
the Rules Committee to set the agenda. It has the power to move a
bill forward or, just as significant, hold one back, thereby
killing it.
Members of the committee openly acknowledge that they do not
meet or vote and that they have no room assigned for their
nonexistent deliberations.
They also make no secret of where the work of the committee is
really being done, or who is doing it. They jokingly refer to the
Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, as Mr. Rules. And the committee,
they like to say, meets between his ears.
This year there has been a lot of talk here about a new era of
openness, about the democratization of the Capitol, about an
unparalleled shift of power from the legislative leaders to
rank-and-file members. After all, ordinary Joe Six-Pack legislators
were actually allowed to discuss the budget in conference
committees this spring and to offer their suggestions. This,
lawmakers all agreed, was a big improvement over last year, when
they were not even told what was in the budget until negotiations
were safely concluded.
So tight is their control over their respective houses that
practically no vote is taken in either the Assembly or the Senate
in which the outcome has not been determined in advance. On
occasion, a lawmaker may vote against his party, but it is expected
that he will first get permission to do so.
As this session heads toward recess, there are few signs these
habits are changing. Lawmakers say they expect the session, like
those before it, to end in an all-night marathon. They expect bills
that they have never had a chance to read to suddenly pop out of
the Rules Committee. And they fully expect to approve them.
It is a sign of how well established this political culture is
that even members of the Rules Committee largely accept its odd
ontological status as a matter of course, a subject more fit for
humor than outrage or embarrassment.
Winner recalled that a few years ago, there was a push to change
the Assembly rules and force the Rules Committee to meet. Not
surprisingly, the change, sponsored by the minority, was, at the
request of the leadership, smothered by the majority.
NEW YORK The constitutionality of New York State's untested
1995 capital punishment law and what the defense considers a
judge's flawed conduct of the murder trial of Darrel Harris will be
the focus of the condemned man's historic appeal, his chief trial
lawyer and other legal experts said on Sunday.
A day after a jury in Brooklyn sentenced the 40-year-old former
jail guard to die by lethal injection for killing three people in a
botched 1996 robbery at an illegal social club, lawyers for Harris
were already mapping strategy for an appeal to the state's highest
tribunal, the Court of Appeals.
The appeal is likely to take years, experts said, and is
expected to be the crucial test of the state's three-year-old death
penalty law: not only deciding whether it is lawful under the
federal and New York State Constitutions, but also setting a host
of legal standards, from the way judges conduct capital trials to
the propriety of using injections in executions.
The appeal's prospects were clouded in uncertainty, experts
said, not only because of the complexity of the issues to be
decided, but also because the composition of the Court of Appeals
is soon to change, with the most liberal of its seven members,
Judge Vito Titone, resigning this month, and a more conservative
replacement expected to be appointed by Gov. George Pataki.
Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes was expected to argue
against the appeal, with assistance from New York State Attorney
General Dennis Vacco. Jonathan Frank, the assistant district
attorney who led the prosecution of Harris, voiced confidence that
the statute and the verdict would be upheld.
While details of the appeal are yet to be determined, some of
the issues that may be raised were discussed in interviews Sunday
by Harris' chief Legal Aid lawyer during the trial, Russell
Neufeld, and by Doyle.
Among the constitutional issues that may be raised, the defense
lawyers said, are questions over the criteria used by prosecutors
to select capital cases for trial, about the composition of juries
in capital cases, about the wording judges use in charging such
juries and about whether lethal injections cause inhumane pain and
suffering.
While an appeal was not expected to reargue many of the issues
decided by the trial jury, the lawyers said it would contend that
many of the rulings by Acting Justice Anne Feldman in State Supreme
Court deprived Harris of a fair trial.
Doyle, citing an example, noted that the law requires a jury,
after a conviction in a capital case, to decide unanimously in a
separate deliberation either to invoke the death penalty or impose
life in prison without possibilty of parole; if it fails to do
either unanimously, the trial judge is authorized to impose a
sentence of 20 or 25 years to life in prison.
While she was technically correct, he said, the jury might have
been told that the judge would impose the sentence prescribed by
law. As a practical matter, if the judge had passed sentenced,
Harris might have been given three consecutive terms of 25 years to
life because he had killed three people. The defense asked the
judge to give a fuller explanation, he said, fearing the jury might
conclude that Harris would receive a lesser sentence, and perhaps
regain freedom or get a new trial if the jury did not reach a
unanimous decision. The judge refused, he said.
NEW YORK The skirmishes over New York City's next budget
continued Sunday as City Council leaders ventured into the
labyrinthine world of property taxes to patch a $251 million hole
that Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had blown into their budget a day
earlier.
Meanwhile, Giuliani's aides fiercely attacked the Council's
budget as illegal. They described Council members as spendthrifts
who had increased spending on themselves in the last four years
even as the mayor's office had substantially lowered its own
expenses.
These were the latest shots in a battle that erupted on Friday,
when the Council defied Giuliani by adopting a budget without his
endorsement. On Saturday, the mayor countered by announcing that
expected revenue for next year would fall short of earlier
estimates by $251 million. The move was intended to force the
Council either to accept eventual spending vetoes by the mayor or
raise property taxes the only tax over which the legislative body
has control to balance the budget.
But aides to Peter Vallone, the Council speaker, said Sunday
night that the Council had another response up its sleeve. It will
meet Monday morning and, turning to an arcane section of the city's
property tax law, draw the $251 million from a reserve fund that
covers property tax shortfalls, the aides said. Taxes will not go
up, they insisted.
The escalating fight over $251 million which represents
seven-tenths of a percent of the $34.08 billion budget underscored yet again how political hostilities have complicated
the annual budget negotiations between Giuliani and Vallone, who
until now shared harmonious relations and, in the recession of the
mid-1990s, were able to agree on deep cuts in services in almost
every area of the city.
In a normal year and especially this fiscal year, which is
expected to end June 30 with a record $2 billion surplus budget
officials from both sides might have settled such picayune
differences over drinks at one of the many bars near City Hall. And
the agreement would have been announced at a carefully orchestrated
photo opportunity, with Vallone and Giuliani flashing smiles at
television cameras, shaking hands and slapping backs.
But budget talks collapsed last Monday amid much chest-beating
and a political deadlock. The mayor, who wants to use city money to
help build a new home for the New York Yankees, possibly on the
West Side of Manhattan, wanted Vallone to drop his call for a
November referendum on the issue. But the speaker refused, saying
the referendum had nothing to do with budget talks. Vallone, who is
seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, has a political
base strongly opposes any suggestion of moving the Yankees out of
the Bronx into Manhattan; what's more, in a general race against
Gov. George Pataki, a referendum on the November ballot would
increase voter turnout in Democratic strongholds like the Bronx and
Manhattan.
NEW YORK For The Daily News, the rainbow of new color pages is
still somewhere over the rainbow, and the search for the best way
to keep the color inks free of water continues, but the lawsuit
that the paper's parent company filed against the company that
supplied the balky newsliner presses is over.
The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.
ASIA-ECON (Ban Wan Yai, Thailand) In the 11 months since the
economic crisis exploded in Thailand and began spreading through
the region, the most prominent victims have been the humbled
tycoons in the big cities, and they have fallen farthest. But the
worst off are those who were already at the margins of society those who had almost nothing before and who now, somehow, have even
less. By Nicholas D. Kristof.
ITALY-POMPEII (Pompeii, Italy) There are two Pompeiis on the
bay of Naples, and it is not always clear which is the dead city.
One, crawling with tourists, guides, workmen and archaeologists,
hums with activity. The other, where the unemployment rate is 30
percent, boasts crumbling buildings, faded hontytonk signs, old
people and stray dogs sleeping in the sun. A journal by Alessandra
Stanley.
KOSOVO-REBELS (Tropoje, Albania) The rebels who escort
refugees across the border into Albania boast proudly that they are
holding a stretch of road near Pec against Serbian soldiers. But
none are able to explain how dying for this piece of asphalt
advances the rebel cause. By Chris Hedges.
EXCLUSIVE-WARMING-CLIMATE (Undated) The White House will
announce on Monday that according to an analysis by government
scientists, El Nino joined the Earth's continuing overall warming
trend to break global temperature records in each of the first five
months of 1998. By William K. Stevens.
NRA-CONVENTION (Philadelphia) A visit to the NRA convention in
Philadelphia: Weary of being seen as an extremist, right-wing
organization, out of touch with mainstream America, the National
Rifle Association is going on the offensive. By Michael Janofsky.
ELDERLY-CARE (Philadelphia) As Americans continue to live
longer than ever, growing numbers of elderly people and their
families are being caught in the gap between the cost of long-term
care and the limited amount of government aid to pay for it. And as
the baby boomers age over the next 30 years and the over-85
population grows particularly fast, the need for such care will
only escalate, experts say. By Sara Rimer.
CALIF-BIRD-CALLERS (Piedmont, Calif.) For decades, the claim
to fame of Piedmont, an affluent community of about 11,500
residents nestled next to Oakland, had been the high school's
annual bird-calling contest, in which the college-destined sons of
physicians and daughters of lawyers took a frivolous pause from
more relevant endeavors to imitate the calls of the wild. By Frank
Bruni.
CLINTON-CLERGY-CHINA (Undated) A broad array of religious
leaders is urging Clinton to use his summit meeting later this
month in Beijing to press the Chinese government to end the
repression of religious believers there.
CALIF-ANTISMOKE (San Francisco) The California Public Health
Department has unveiled its latest anti-smoking ad: a guy with a
limp cigarette in his mouth. The message: cigarettes raise
impotency rates. It's an interesting approach in the Viagra era,
but it's also a window into the endless creativity and effort that
this state, perhaps more than any other, pours into the
anti-smoking crusade.
LIFE-INSURE-DECLINE (Undated) Generations of Americans have
looked at life insurance as a cornerstone of family finances, but
now, with people living longer and worrying more about running out
of money in retirement, millions of Americans are either doing
without life insurance or buying less. The shift in attitudes has
now reached a critical mass, sending life insurance sales into a
free fall. By Joseph B. Treaster.
INTEL-ANTITRUST (Washington) The FTC is expected to file a
major antitrust lawsuit against Intel Corp., and Intel executives
and lawyers have vowed to fight the suit vigorously. By Joel
Brinkley.
BRITAIN-CW (Undated) Seeking to expand Cable and Wireless'
presence in the United States, where so far it mainly resells
long-distance service to business customers, Richard H. Brown,
chief executive of Cable and Wireless agreed two weeks ago to buy a
large portion of the Internet business of MCI Communications for
$625 million. By Seth Schiesel.
CHIPS-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Semiconductor stocks, which have
been battered this year as one formerly stellar company after
another has reported earnings disappointments, layoffs and product
delays. Chip industry analysts agree that the group may be reaching
a bottom, but they differ on when to start buying chip stocks
again. By Lawrence M. Fisher.
AWARDS-AD-COLUMN (New York) The advertising awards season
continues in full swing as five organizations have bestowed honors
for television and radio commercials, art direction, corporate
citizenship and fragrance advertising. Interestingly, many of those
awards went to agencies owned by Omnicom Group. By Stuart Elliott.
HDTV-FCC (Undated) With the rollout of digital television too
much in flux for the liking of federal regulators, the FCC has set
up a get-tough task force headed by one of its commissioners, Susan
Ness. Among the imponderables: the first digital TV sets to hit the
market this fall will probably not be compatible with digital cable
television signals. By Joel Brinkley.
DOMAIN-NAMES-ASSESS (Undated) The government has decided to
turn the management of Internet domain names and thus the
management of the Internet itself over to an as-yet-unformed
private corporation, representing various Internet interests. By
Peter H. Lewis.
CISCO-COMPETE (Undated) For most of the past decade, Cisco
Systems Inc. has been steamrolling competitors in data networking.
Its routers and switches dominate the Internet and corporate
networks that try to get disparate sorts of computers to talk to
each other. But lately, Cisco is on a collision course with a set
of new, much bigger competitors. A look at how Lucent and Nortel
are angling for Cisco's network equipment business.
PRISON-HEALTHCARE (Undated) With the ranks of prisoners rising
an average of 8 percent every year, prison health care is an
expensive proposition. To control costs and enhance security, a
handful of states are trying out telemedicine -- healthcare via
telecommunications. With government agencies, managed care
providers, and legislators watching, these programs are serving as
proving grounds for bringing telemedicine to the broader
population.
TV-CNN-MEDIA (Undated) It is hard to know what came first the idea of partnerships between Time-Warner's weekly magazines and
Turner Broadcasting's all-news network CNN, or the idea of changing
CNN's humdrum reputation. But when Time Warner Inc. and Turner
merged in the fall of 1996, both ideas began to percolate. A look
at what's behind the big facelift at CNN. By Lawrie Mifflin.
TV-NEWSVIEWERS-MEDIA (Undated) Following a pattern seen in
entertainment viewing, Americans now watch news programs on cable
television networks about as regularly as those on broadcast
networks, according to a survey by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press. The researchers also found that the number of
people who get their news from the Internet is rising rapidly, and
estimated that almost as many people use the Internet on a typical
weekday as spend time reading a magazine. By Lawrie Mifflin.
Victory Gallop has a more important and prominent nose than
Cyrano de Bergerac or Pinocchio. His narrow margin of victory in
Saturday's 130th Belmont Stakes at Belmont Park not only prevented
Real Quiet from capturing the Triple Crown and a $5 million bonus but it also reopened the race for championship honors among this
year's talented crop of 3-year-olds. 
Had Real Quiet won, he would have been assured an Eclipse Award
as the champion 3-year-old. Now, a number of colts including
Victory Gallop, Coronado's Quest, Indian Charlie and even Lil's Lad
and Favorite Trick are back in the running, and their presence
offers promise of dramatic matches in a series of important races
for 3-year-olds in the second half of the year.
Real Quiet and Victory Gallop emerged as the best of their
generation through a thrilling series of races in the Triple Crown.
They were one-two in the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and
Belmont, with Real Quiet winning two of the three, and their
rivalry should continue this summer. Their trainers said the
$750,000 Travers Stakes at the Derby distance of a mile and
one-quarter on Aug. 29 at Saratoga is their next major objective.
Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, and Real Quiet's
trainer, Bob Baffert, said Sunday morning at Belmont that their
colts emerged from Saturday's thrilling race tired but in good
health. Walden felt a sense of accomplishment for having stayed the
course on the Triple Crown trail.
After a night to sleep on the result, Baffert still refused to
second-guess anything with Real Quiet, from his own training to the
ride of Kent Desormeaux. Baffert missed the Triple Crown last year
when Silver Charm ran second in the Belmont after taking the Derby
and Preakness. 
Real Quiet left Belmont at 6:30 a.m. Sunday and was flown to
Louisville, Ky., and Churchill Downs, where he will rest for a week
before rejoining Baffert's large stable in Southern California.
Victory Gallop is flying to Kentucky, where Walden is based. But
both will be headed East again soon.
Victory Gallop is likely to make his next start in the $1
million Haskell Invitational at a mile and one-eighth at New
Jersey's Monmouth Park on Aug. 9, then go to the Travers, Walden
said. Baffert said Real Quiet would definitely be at the Travers.
Also ticketed for a trip to the Haskell is the mercurial
Coronado's Quest, who returned to action on Saturday and won the
seven-furlong Riva Ridge Stakes on the Belmont undercard.
Coronado's Quest has had a spring filled with high drama. His
erratic behavior compromised his chances in races in Florida
earlier this year and led to a decision not to run him in the
Kentucky Derby. Then he was scratched from the Preakness because of
a bruised foot.
Coronado's Quest's victory on Saturday was efficient if
unspectacular, but his deportment before 80,162 fans was
exemplary in both the saddling paddock and post parade.
He said Coronado's Quest would run once before the Haskell, in
Belmont's $150,000 Dwyer Stakes, at a mile and one-sixteenth, on
July 12.
Favorite Trick also is expected to run in the Dwyer. The 1997
Horse of the Year, he has not raced since finishing eighth in the
Kentucky Derby.
Lil's Lad, who was disqualified from victory in the Florida
Derby earlier this year, will join the party last of all. He needed
minor ankle surgery after his second-place finish in the Blue Grass
Stakes, and only in the past week has he gone back to the track to
train. His trainer, Neil Howard, said Lil's Lad probably would not
be ready to race until late August or early September, near the end
of the Saratoga meeting.
The hubbub of chatter stopped. As Ausfahl strummed his guitar,
the roisterous kindergartners at Public School 114 in the Bronx
lifted their faces in delight. Accompanying him were Brian Grice on
the drums and Sue Terry on the flute. Between songs, they taught
the rudiments of their instruments.
Jeff Ausfahl has played the guitar professionally for 25 years.
He is what is known as a club date musician, who primarily performs
at single engagements like weddings and private parties. A highly
malleable guitarist, he can play everything from dance to rock to
classical to merengue to polkas. He plays songs of contagious cheer
and songs with a lot of ache in them, though he no longer gets to
perform anywhere as much as he would like to. Such is the sharply
altered shape of the musician's life in a world more in thrall to
canned music than live.
That is why Ausfahl, at 43, finds himself doing about 75 gigs a
year in front of schoolchildren, arranged through Music Outreach, a
nonprofit outfit that puts on music demonstrations in public
schools in New York. The audience is highly appreciative. He needs
the work.
There has been an evolving decline in jobs for live musicians,
caught in the undertow of disc jockeys spinning CDs on much
improved sound systems and a more thrift-minded economy.
Local 802, the New York chapter of the American Federation of
Musicians, to which Ausfahl belongs, says union club dates in the
city have tumbled to about 6,000 a year from as many as 15,000 15
years ago. The union reports that the bar mitzvah business and
lower-end weddings have been almost totally lost to DJs, who
generally cost a fraction of what a band does.
Far fewer musicians find themselves able to play full time
anymore. Many teach. And it has become axiomatic among union
musicians that they must accept nonunion jobs to eat, a practice
the union tolerates.
It is not strictly economics that has brought on this state of
affairs. Many people do not want to hear someone who sounds like
Bruce Springsteen or Elton John. They want Bruce Springsteen or
Elton John, even if he is coming out of a box.
These days, musicians have come to feel like very expensive
bottles of wine, tasted less and less often.
It was a languid Monday void of gigs, and Ausfahl was working on
the attic of the tidy Teaneck, N.J., house that he shares with his
wife, Janet, and a parakeet named Henry. Ausfahl is a sinewy,
genial man with longish hair and sharply chiseled features.
He eventually received a degree from Berklee College of Music in
Boston, after several interruptions. For a spell, he played rock
music at bars and Holiday Inn lounges. For eight months in 1975, he
joined a band in Chicago called Even Steven. The musicians wore
silver satin suits and played soul music. One summer, he journeyed
to Virginia Beach and played military bases and wet T-shirt
contests.
He has never recorded his own album, though he has been on a few
bootleg records. In the past, he appeared at many familiar New York
nightclubs like CBGB and the Bitter End, but he has forsaken that
scene.
Within reason, he'll take whatever comes along. He has a steady
Friday night gig at a university club, where he plays swing and
dance music and also sings. Once he played a divorce. A man was so
elated when his divorce papers were signed that he threw a party.
In exchange for a free checkup, he recorded a song written by his
dentist to be entered in a contest to anoint a state song for New
Jersey. (It lost.)
Saturday parties pay about $200 (weekdays are about $170), and
if he leads the band, it's $100 more. There is a $10 bonus if he
lugs along his own amplifier, which he always does. When he plays
solo guitar in a restaurant, he has trouble getting more than $125.
A jazz club pays him no more than $50 to $75. In these days of
depleted jobs, fees can get insulting. Not long ago, Ausfahl
rebuffed an offer to play jazz in a prison in Albany for $80.
The splendiferous Bedens Brook Club lies at the end of a curving
road in Skillman, N.J., on the outskirts of Princeton. On a recent
Thursday evening, the Princeton class of 1953 had gathered for a
reunion dinner and dance. Don Anderson, a grizzled, 67-year-old
band leader and piano player, had hired Ausfahl and three others to
provide the evening's entertainment.
Even as the evening waned, the floor was seething with dancers.
The musicians had smiles on their faces. By no means was Jeff
Ausfahl wallpaper tonight. He was making music.
NEW YORK Fire marshals spent Sunday slowly searching what was
left of a row of Brooklyn buildings in search of definitive clues
to what caused a five-alarm blaze that killed a fire lieutenant and
left a fire captain severely burned and clinging to life, fire
officials said.
The injured captain, Scott LaPiedra, 40, of Staten Island, was
in critical condition Sunday night at Jacobi Medical Center in the
Bronx with second- and third-degree burns over more than 70 percent
of his body.
Investigators picked through the charred remains of the
three-story, wood and brick city-owned apartment building at 2530
Atlantic Ave. in East New York, which burst into flames Friday
night. No occupants of the building were hurt, but the blaze spread
to three adjacent buildings and took more than 220 firefighters
more than four hours to bring under control.
Fire officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said they
suspect the fire started in a mattress in the apartment building
about 8:20 p.m.
But Washington said Sunday that fire marshals had not announced
a definitive cause of the blaze and that the scope of the damage
was complicating the investigation.
Fire officials said funeral services would be held Wednesday for
Lt. James Blackmore, 48, who died of a heart attack in the fire. In
addition to LaPiedra, five other firefighters injured in the blaze
remained hospitalized with second- and third-degree burns and other
injuries Sunday, fire officials said. None of their injuries was
considered life-threatening.
Blackmore, LaPiedra and the five other firefighters were injured
when they rushed onto the second floor of the burning apartment
building after a woman told them her elderly mother was trapped
there. As the firefighters searched for the missing woman, the
second floor collapsed, dropping them into a raging fire on the
first floor.
The wake for Blackmore will be held Monday and Tuesday at the
McCourt Trudden Funeral Home at 385 Main St. in Farmingdale, N.Y.
His funeral will be held on Wednesday at 11 a.m. at St. Kilian
Roman Catholic Church at 485 Conklin St. in Farmingdale.
BOSTON On Sunday night, the New York Mets looked like a team
in a trance or a team anxious to return home after an 11-game road
trip or a team that could not see very clearly because the
persistent rain pelted 25 pairs of eyes. Actually, the Mets looked
like all of the above and worse while tumbling to the Boston Red
Sox 5-0.
It was the wrong night for the resurgent Mets to be featured
nationally on ESPN since Masato Yoshii lasted only five innings and
Steve Avery remember him? pitched his best game for Boston
against a lineup that was still without the injured Mike Piazza.
While Yoshii was abysmal mostly during a four-run third, New
York's hitters were dismal all evening against a pitcher who
entered the contest with a 6.41 earned run average. Who would have
expected the Mets to pulverize Pedro Martinez, the Cy Young award
winner in the National League last season, for four homers Friday
night and be mesmerized by Avery, who has three pinch-running
appearances listed as achievements for 1998?
But Avery won his third straight decision by baffling the Mets
with off-speed pitches and halting them on three hits in seven
innings as the Red Sox grabbed the final game of a three-game
interleague series. The Mets finished 7-4 on this trip.
Darren Lewis singled off the Green Monster in left, stole second
and scored when Reggie Jefferson rapped a 2-2 single to center.
After Nomar Garciaparra doubled on a 1-2 pitch and Mo Vaughn walked
to cram the bases, Troy O'Leary dribbled the third straight
two-strike pitch past a diving Carlos Baerga and into center to
score two more runs. John Valentin ended the two-strike streak by
blooping a 2-0 pitch into shallow right that doubled in Vaughn and
made it 4-0.
After the early onslought, the Mets had a chance to get back
into it when Brian McRae started the fourth by hammering a 400-foot
triple to center. But McRae, whose gyrations helped Tim Wakefield
balk in the only run in a 1-0 victory on Saturday, did not seem as
anxious to score on Sunday night. He did not try to come in on
Edgardo Alfonzo's smash to first, which caromed off Vaughn's glove
and rolled away from him. Bernard Gilkey's flyball reached medium
right, but McRae stopped running about halfway down the line. The
inning ended abruptly as John Olerud struck out and Scott Hatteberg
threw to second to catch Gilkey by 10 feet.
NEW YORK A 14-year-old girl was shot and killed at a friend's
apartment in Brooklyn early Sunday when a pistol being handled by
an adult discharged, the police said.
Investigators said they believed that the shooting was an
accident and that the man, who was being sought for questioning,
panicked and fled.
The girl, Selena Slade, a resident of Bushwick, Brooklyn, was
listening to music in a friend's apartment at 1145 Lenox Rd. in
Brownsville just after midnight when she was shot in the chest by a
man who had started handling a pistol, said Officer Leslie Cardona,
a police spokeswoman.
The man, who was a friend of the woman who rented the apartment,
fled immediately, the police said. Miss Slade was pronounced dead
at the scene, the police said.
Detectives from the 67th Precinct were still trying to find the
man and talk to him Sunday night. The police identified him only as
41 years old.
At the apartment where Miss Slade was shot, in a well-kept
building called the Lenox Court, a radio was playing inside, but no
one would come to the door to discuss the shooting.
NEW YORK Nestled among the mammoth numbers in the budget
passed by the City Council last week are page after page of small
ones: $500 to the Actors Company Theater, $3,000 to the Brooklyn
Puerto Rican Day Parade, $3,125 to the Shore Garden Club.
Member items have long been a way for the Council leaders to
reward favored members and punish troublesome ones. Each of the
council's 44 Democrats was allowed to dole out at least $80,000 to
groups, while the 7 Republicans learned Friday that they had been
cut back to $50,000. The system makes most members happy, so few
talk about it.
As the mayor suggested with his comments on Saturday, members do
take their items very personally. A frenzy erupted in the
high-ceilinged Council hearing room when the budget packets were
passed out at lunchtime on Friday, as Council members holed up in
bay windows and side rooms to check to be sure all their items were
included. Aides bearing cellular phones and takeout food peeked
over their shoulders.
Councilman Victor Robles, D-Brooklyn, whipped out a yellow
highlighter. Councilwoman Julia Harrison, a D-Queens, made a list
and checked it twice on an envelope. And Councilwoman Una Clarke, a
D-Brooklyn, huddled with a calculator and an aide from the Council
Finance Division.
The member items have often been used to please most Council
members just before the budget vote, and to punish others out of
step with the leadership. In the past, for instance, items for
liberal and progressive Democrats were cut by the party's centrist
leaders. This year, Council leaders said that when a Republican's
member items were reduced, the money was spread around in the
punished member's district, so that the district gets the money but
the member cannot claim credit for it.
NEW YORK For more than a year, Rep. Edolphus Towns, a 16-year
member of Congress from Brooklyn, has been certain he would face
some well-connected opposition in the Democratic primary this year.
His only uncertainty was who that opponent would be.
Last week, Towns found out. Barry Ford, a 35-year-old lawyer
with the firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen Hamilton, announced that
he would seek to unseat Towns in the Sept. 15 primary. Although
Ford is as much a political novice as Towns is an experienced
political maneuverer, his insurgent candidacy is nonetheless
receiving a great deal of attention among Brooklyn politicians and
analysts.
Normally, a race by a political newcomer against a 63-year-old,
eight-term incumbent would not generate much attention. But Ford,
who was educated at Harvard University and Harvard Law School, has
so far raised nearly $100,000 only slightly less than the
$120,000 raised by Towns. Furthermore, Ford is being encouraged by
Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., the chairman of the Brooklyn
Democratic Party, and the Ford campaign is expected to benefit from
whatever assistance the chairman can muster.
For nearly two years, Towns has been locked in a bitter
political war with Norman, his onetime confidant. In recent months
the Democratic chairman has vowed to find a candidate to run
against the congressman. Norman first courted the Rev. Al Sharpton
before turning to City Councilwoman Annette Robinson, both of whom
ultimately decided not to run against Towns.
Ford, however, has eagerly dived into the race. He has been
adept not only at raising money he worked as a fund-raiser for
President Clinton's last campaign, as well as for the campaigns of
former Mayor David Dinkins, former Gov. Mario Cuomo and Ruth
Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president but also at
focusing his attacks on Towns.
For his part, Towns said he had long been prepared for a strong
challenge, but he dismissed Ford as a political aspirant who has
not demonstrated much community involvement.
For more than a year now, the feud between Towns and Norman has
occupied center stage in Brooklyn politics. For many years, the two
men operated as if they were political father and son. But in the
last two years, the two Democrats began sparring, first over
competing sets of delegates to the party's convention to select
judicial candidates, a race that Norman won.
Last year, after supporting Sharpton's mayoral campaign in the
Democratic primary, Towns endorsed Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in the
general election, a move that Norman called a final straw and an
act of party betrayal.
NEW YORK When it came on Saturday, New York state's first
death-penalty verdict in decades showed that capital punishment
remains a tangled political issue long after its reinstatement in
New York and nationally.
Charles Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney whose office
prosecuted the case, has staked out an unusual position that is
making him a symbol of the enduring potency of the debate over the
ultimate penalty.
As district attorney, Hynes has sought death sentences in five
cases, far more than any other prosecutor in the state, winning him
praise from death-penalty proponents as a prosecutor who is willing
to make the threat of execution real.
But as a candidate for governor in the crowded Democratic field,
Hynes is startling audiences across the state with passionate
criticism of the death penalty. Hynes is the only Democratic
candidate who persistently brings up the issue and promises if
elected to work to repeal the death-penalty law, whose passage was
a central theme of Gov. George Pataki's campaign four years ago.
Since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1995, critics
have said Hynes has an eat-your-cake-and-have-it-too position. Some
of them trace his position to a desire to win votes in the
hurly-burly of Brooklyn politics, a borough that includes the
liberal bastions of Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope, the
politically conservative Orthodox Jewish enclaves and the
politically crucial black and Hispanic neighborhoods, where the
death penalty can be a volatile issue.
In the interview, Hynes denied that he had pursued the death
penalty for political reasons. But he acknowledged the obvious
distress of the jurors after the death sentence was announced for
Darrel Harris, a former jail guard once cited for heroism who was
convicted of a triple homicide.
Whatever Hynes' motives, his role as a prosecutor who seeks the
death penalty while remaining personally opposed to it has been
part of a winning political formula in Brooklyn. In 1997, during
his third successful campaign to be prosecutor of New York City's
most populous borough, he won with not only the Democratic and
Liberal Party designations but with the Republican nomination as
well.
For district attorneys, who must stand for election even if they
do not have larger political ambitions, the state's reinstatement
of the death penalty in 1995 created a political minefield.
Each of the city's district attorneys has steered through it
exceedingly carefully. Their views range from outright support for
the death penalty, expressed by District Attorney William Murphy of
Staten Island, to cautious opposition, expressed by District
Attorney Robert Johnson of the Bronx.
And many lawyers have concluded that the Manhattan district
attorney, Robert Morgenthau, is shrewdly sabotaging the law.
Morgenthau, a longtime death-penalty opponent, has said he is
evaluating each case on its merits. But he has yet to ask for the
penalty after considering the question in a dozen cases. The Queens
district attorney, Richard Brown, has said he is opposed to the
death penalty but has sought it in at least two cases.
In the Bronx, that stance proved popular; Johnson was
overwhelmingly re-elected later that year. But in 1996, Pataki
removed Johnson from a case involving the killing of a police
officer and appointed state Attorney General Dennis Vacco; the case
never went to trial because the defendant committed suicide.
Norman Siegel, a death-penalty opponent who is executive
director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said Saturday's
verdict opened the door to a new era of executions in New York
state. Hynes, as the prosecutor who has been most active in seeking
death sentences, bears some responsibility for that no matter what
his own views are, Siegel said.
For any prosecutor with statewide ambitions, Pataki's victory in
his battle with Johnson made the politics of death-penalty choices
clear: Seek the death penalty or risk being tarred as an
obstructionist.
An obstructionist posture might win support from staunch
death-penalty opponents. But it was also likely to galvanize
proponents and make them active political enemies.
Hynes has always presented himself as a politician who is
disgusted by the pandering of other politicians. He said his
remarks against the death penalty while he pursues it in court are
consistent with a frankness that he believes voters want.
However well his approach has worked in Brooklyn, for years his
apparent frustration at being unable to move beyond the district
attorney's office has been a constant of New York politics.
He took office after becoming a political celebrity in the 1970s
and '80s. He was a special prosecutor in cases of nursing-home
fraud and political corruption. He had well-placed political
friends and was once New York City fire commissioner.
As special prosecutor in the 1986 Howard Beach racial killing
cases, he achieved widespread fame, with books written about him
and a television movie in which he was played by Daniel Travanti.
His ambitions have long been the subject of speculation. He was
often mentioned as a possible candidate for mayor or governor and
ran unsuccessfully for state attorney general twice, in 1978 and
1994.
Critics have suggested that his stance on the death penalty was
intended to try to ensure that his longtime opposition would not
become a roadblock to higher office.
In the interview, he conceded that at 63, he is probably running
his last campaign for statewide office.
It took more than half a century for the Tonys to present its
first directing award to a woman. It took five minutes to present
the second one.
The 52nd annual Tony Awards capped the most successful season in
Broadway history, with record attendance of more than 11 million
and box-office grosses in excess of $550 million, and it was among
the most competitive Tony ceremony in many years with strong
contests in virtually every category. For the second year, Rosie
O'Donnell was host.
The Manhattan Theater Club's announcement drew ire from
playwrights and other theater professionals and the company
reinstated the play, which mixes themes of Christianity and
homosexuality.
The first Antoinette Perry Awards popularly known as Tonys were presented by the American Theater Wing in 1947 in the grand
ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria.
Named for the actress, director and producer who died in 1946
after having been one of the leaders of the wing, a theatrical
service organization, the awards have established themselves as the
most important in American commercial theater.
The Tony Administration Committee, including most of the key
players on Broadway and in national touring productions, oversees
the awards and determines who is eligible to vote for them.
A Tony Nominating Committee, which has 19 members, announced
this year's roster of nominees on May 4, beginning five weeks of
cocktail parties, awards ceremonies and behind-the-scenes jostling.
In the end, some 782 theater professionals and journalists were
eligible to cast ballots in 21 categories for Sunday night's
awards.
The instant success of the new format and the new host ratings
rose 35 percent over 1996 silenced those who had been
uncomfortable with the Tonys being held in a non-Broadway house and
presided over by a television talk show host.
Although many Broadway veterans were among the presenters Sunday
night, including Tommy Tune, Nathan Lane and Bebe Neuwirth, the
producers also included numerous film and television personalities
who will appear or have appeared in recent shows, such as Helen
Hunt, Alec Baldwin and Marisa Tomei.
The three-hour awards ceremony was split into two programs.
During the first hour, which was broadcast on PBS by WNET/Channel
13 in New York City, all of the technical and behind-the-scenes
awards were presented, including the directing awards. This left
the subsequent two-hour CBS broadcast to distribute the awards for
best play, best musical, best revivals and all of the acting
awards.
CHICAGO The Utah Jazz has players with crew cuts and Scout
badges, good manners and accounting degrees. So polite, so
upstanding. And yet so unequipped to match the snarling nature of a
physical team that would just as easily kick sand in the face of
the Jazz.
The Chicago Bulls were the aggressors, while the Jazz played the
part of a team from the West typically overwhelmed by a hardened
East team that hit and hit hard.
When it was over, the Jazz went whimpering away from the United
Center after being humiliated 96-54 in Game 3 of the NBA Finals on
Sunday night.
The head bullies were Scottie Pippen, Toni Kukoc and Dennis
Rodman. They were part of a defensive and offensive effort by the
Bulls that was so aggressive, the Jazz players were punch drunk by
the end of the first half. The Jazz appeared too stunned and too
timid to retaliate.
Instead of countering with toughness, the Jazz settled for
passive jumpers, rushed its plays and fell right into the hands of
a Bulls team that was driving to the basket and pressuring the
ball. The combo resulted in a runaway game that began in the second
quarter. In a horrible span of the period, the Jazz turned the ball
over nine times and fell behind by 18 points before the half.
To build that gaudy lead, Pippen became omnipresent as he cut
off every passing lane and flew into the face of any guard who
dared to drive to the basket.
To keep Karl Malone from countering to keep his team close,
Rodman began irritating what had been a hot Malone.
He began sticking Malone in the back, and needling him into
frustration. After Malone hit his first six shots, the bulk of
which were over Luc Longley, Rodman came and turned things around.
Malone took just one more shot in the first half, and was much
more ineffective the rest of the game.
Kukoc also factored into the Bulls' ambush. He continually found
his way to the loose balls, beating players bigger and bulkier in
wrestling away rebounds.
It was not as if the Jazz players did not realize they faced a
team capable of outmuscling them. The Jazz entered this game in
search of some aggression after a pedestrian effort in Game 2, when
it was outrebounded on the offensive boards 18-9.
Sloan was irate in Game 2. He was watching the Bulls be the
aggressors, seeing them drive for baskets and barge in when they
missed a shot.
Steve Kerr was a perfect example. He missed his 3-pointer, but
bolted ahead of John Stockton and underneath Malone to pull away
the rebound. Kerr then whipped a pass to Jordan, who completed a
3-point play that gave the Bulls a lead they would never relinquish
with 47 seconds left in Game 2.
But Sloan's pleas were in vain. The Jazz Sunday night continued
to play like a team born from the Western Conference stereotype:
all talent, no backbone.
The feistiness belonged to the Bulls. Pippen did not get credit
for every steal, or every forced turnover, but the fact that he was
able to roam the court helped him disrupt everything in his path.
He was there to shut down Stockton and make him look like a shell
of himself with repeated turnovers.
Kukoc was there to pick up the remnants of Pippen's work by
grabbing three first-half steals from the flustered and frustrated
Jazz. By the end of the first half, the Jazz had turned the ball
over 12 times, including 9 in the second quarter.
Pippen got credit for one steal and one blocked shot. Kukoc came
up with five rebounds to go with his steals.
As aggressive as the duo was on defense, it was equally
assertive on offense. Pippen and Kukoc were going to make the Jazz
work.
They were making a living getting under the skin of the Jazz.
This kind of effort was expected of Pippen. He is so diverse, his
normal play affects about three or four categories by the end of
the night.
Kukoc's consistency has been questioned. In Game 2, he came out
with a sense of urgency to get himself into the game. He scored 13
first-half points, and helped take some of the burden off of
Michael Jordan. In the second half, though, he did not score
because he did not get aggressive.
The Bulls barged inside like party-crashers Sunday night. And
falling into the stereotypical mold of a team out of the West, the
Jazz simply stepped aside all too politely.
SEATTLE The Los Angeles Dodgers were three outs from going
home with a smile, but since when is anything that easy?
After eight solid innings from Darren Dreifort on Sunday,
manager Bill Russell needed three relievers to get through the
ninth inning of a 7-4 interleague victory over the Seattle Mariners
in front of 41,514 at the Kingdome.
The Dodgers were hoping to think only about the home runs by
Gary Sheffield and Eric Karros or the three RBI by Paul Konerko.
They took two of three against the Mariners and had a good chance
to make up some ground in the National League West by playing three
games this week against the lowly Oakland A's.
But as the plane was warming up so was the bullpen. And suddenly
the Dodgers' six-run lead started to shrink. Ken Griffey Jr. hit a
two-run homer off Mark Guthrie, who then gave up a single and a
walk. Scott Radinsky was no better, facing two batters, walking one
and allowing a hit to load the bases.
That Osuna struck out Segui on a 2-2 fastball to end the game is
only part of the story. If Osuna hadn't struggled all season,
Guthrie and Radinsky would never have been in the game.
It certainly is no longer Radinsky, who took over the closer
role when Osuna faltered. He didn't get a blown save the way he did
twice at home against Cincinnati, but he has allowed 12 of the last
20 batters he's faced to reach base (nine hits, three walks).
But Russell knows that Osuna, like Radinsky, is a one-pitch
fastball pitcher. Osuna has more velocity, Radinsky more movement.
Neither has been consistent and hitters have adjusted. Radinsky had
10 saves in his first 11 attempts, but just one in his past four.
That confidence had been shattered early this year when Osuna
came out of spring training with a new three-year contract but
without control. He left the team for several days in early May
when his father became ill in Mexico.
With 62 down, and 100 games to play, the Dodgers (31-31) need
him to step up.
Dreifort (4-5) certainly has done his share, winning for the
fourth time in five starts. He struck out Griffey three times, the
first time that has happened this year. Dreifort allowed nine hits
but was helped by two of the Dodgers' three double plays.
Last Thursday, the Dodgers refused to trade Dreifort to the
Mariners as part of the Randy Johnson deal. Sunday he showed why he
might be worth it.
Dreifort was given the lead on a first-inning homer by Sheffield
and a fourth-inning blast by Karros, both off Mariners starter
Jamie Moyer (3-6).
The Dodgers appeared to blow open the game in the sixth when six
consecutive batters reached base against Moyer and five scored.
Konerko, who had four RBI on Saturday, highlighted the inning
with a bases-clearing double to right-center.
NEW YORK Larry Seabrook, a state senator from the Bronx who
had long planned to oppose Rep. Eliot Engel, a fellow Democrat,
said Sunday that he would not run for Congress this year but would
prepare for a congressional campaign in two years.
Seabrook's decision was an abrupt departure from the position he
has taken for nearly a year. Indeed, as recently as last week,
Seabrook said he had firmly decided to run against Engel and had
met with a host of politicians, fund-raisers and strategists to put
together a campaign against the five-term congressman.
In an interview Sunday, Seabrook, 46, said he had decided
against running, because he had failed to raise enough money and
because he had not seen a significant increase in the number of
registered black voters in the 17th Congressional District, which
covers the northern Bronx and parts of Westchester County. Seabrook
is black.
Seabrook had contended that the shifting demographics of the
district were creating a more receptive environment for his
candidacy against Engel, who is white. After the 1992
redistricting, the district's lines were redrawn to increase its
share of racial and ethnic minorities to nearly 70 percent: 38
percent black, 29 percent Hispanic, 29 percent white, 3 percent
Asian and 1 percent other.
Both Seabrook and Engel said the district's black and Hispanic
populations have grown since then. Luther Blake, a demographic
consultant, calculates that about 75 percent of the district's
population consists of members of minorities, while Seabrook
contends that the figure is closer to 80 percent.
Seabrook's decision came just days before the beginning of the
petitioning period, when candidates have to declare and file papers
indicating which offices they seek. It also came after meetings
with Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic chairman,
who has made the protection of his party's incumbents from
insurgent challenges the cornerstone of his stewardship.
Seabrook acknowledged that he had spoken with Ramirez, but
declined to discuss details of their conversation. Ramirez could
not be reached by telephone at his home Sunday and did not return
calls to his office.
Two weeks ago, Ramirez and the Bronx Democratic organization
averted what had been widely expected to be another turbulent
battle when Pedro Espada Jr., a former state senator who has been
in a heated feud with the party organization, announced that he
would not run for his former seat.
Like Espada's decision, Seabrook's withdrawal from this year's
congressional race represents a major victory for Ramirez. With
Seabrook and Espada no longer candidates, the Bronx Democratic
organization will have little to no substantial opposition for its
incumbents.
Campaign finance reform has been declared dead many times by
Newt Gingrich and his eager pallbearers, only to rise again with
more support. But with the House set to open its long-deferred
debate on overhauling campaign finance laws, the speaker has come
up with another strategy to squelch reform in the form of a
parliamentary rule to allow hundreds of amendments. This sneaky
attempt to sow legislative chaos and run out the clock is another
abuse of power by the speaker. But advocates can win by standing up
to the Georgia obstructionist.
Gingrich's pattern of obstruction was first established last
fall. But a revolt by Republicans forced him to schedule a vote for
1998. When the time came to redeem that promise, Gingrich insulted
his colleagues by blocking consideration of the one bill that would
change the system, sponsored by Reps. Christopher Shays of
Connecticut and Martin Meehan of Massachusetts. Only when the
Shays-Meehan supporters gathered enough signatures on a petition to
bring the bill to the floor did Gingrich relent. The lesson is that
if Republicans and Democrats raise a cry of protest, Gingrich will
back down.
Armey and Tom DeLay, the Republican whip, will be in charge of
the trial-by-amendment scheme. Among their amendments are every
variety of poison-pill rider designed to repel Democratic votes.
Some of these measures might deserve to be considered on their
merits on another day. For now, their obvious purpose is to delay
Shays-Meehan and confuse the public.
Under the glare of publicity, the tactics of Gingrich and his
colleagues will be seen for what they are, a brazen attempt to
undermine the public demand for an end to the influence-peddling
that passes for campaign finance in America. Supporters of change
are close to having the votes. The speaker's desperate trickery
shows that he knows it. Now is the time for all lawmakers to stand
up and demonstrate that Congress answers to the public, not to
moneyed interests and a devious speaker.
FORT WORTH, Texas A Denton woman who spent three years
believing she had HIV is not entitled to monetary damages from the
physicians and medical laboratory involved in testing, diagnosing
and treating her for the disease, a Tarrant County jury concluded.
Jurors voted 11-1 in rejecting the negligence claims brought by
Khristol Watson, 29, against Dr. Muddamalle Augustine of Arlington,
Texas, Drs. Steven Sotman and Daniel Barbaro of Fort Worth, Texas,
and National Psychopharmacology Laboratories, a now-defunct
Tennessee company.
Watson, who was found to be HIV-positive in 1991, sued the
physicians and lab after discovering in 1994 that she is, in fact,
HIV-negative. She said she underwent a hysterectomy in 1993 largely
because she believed she was infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.
Her attorneys had asked for damages up to $38 million for pain
and suffering, lost earnings, medical expenses and mental anguish,
including Watson's distress at knowing she can no longer bear
children.
The verdict Friday, which ended a four-week trial, came on the
third day of jury deliberations in 348th District Court.
The trial brought out details about Watson's past drug use and
emotional problems, and her attorneys played for jurors a film her
brother made about their family's coping with her substance abuse.
While Watson believed she carried the AIDS virus, she spoke to
students, jail inmates and others about AIDS and the
life-threatening dangers of risky behavior.
Several jurors interviewed after the trial said they did not
focus on Watson's past in determining whether any of the defendants
could be faulted for negligence.
Augustine diagnosed the AIDS virus for Watson in September 1991
based on a positive HIV test after she checked into Willow Creek
Hospital in Arlington for depression and substance abuse.
Watson's suit said that her blood sample was switched or
contaminated during the process, between being drawn at Willow
Creek and tested in Tennessee and California. But the trial did not
show conclusively what happened that led to her receiving a
positive test report.
During the trial, Watson's attorneys argued that Augustine
wrongly assessed her HIV status since she had no telltale symptoms.
They said Sotman and Barbaro provided substandard medical care
because they did not retest Watson or question the diagnosis even
though she never developed key signs of HIV.
Defense attorneys countered that the physicians acted reasonably
based on what they knew. The lawyers also argued that Watson would
have had the hysterectomy anyway because of problems with
endometriosis and ovarian cysts.
Juror Albert Kirkpatrick, 40, of the Fort Worth suburb of
Watauga, the only dissenter, said he drew a conclusion different
from the other jurors after looking at all the evidence.
Kirkpatrick, an American Airlines facility maintenance mechanic,
also said he was swayed by Watson's expert witness.
CHICAGO Ron Harper woke up on Sunday morning and felt
refreshed when he looked out his window. No Wasatch Mountains meant
no game at the Delta Center. No derisive chants or tasteless signs
from annoying Jazz fans.
It began for another team in Game 3 of the National Basketball
Association finals on Sunday night. Karl Malone and John Stockton
also were not in Utah anymore. If that was not made clear by the
nonchalant way Michael Jordan's team converted dunks and
3-pointers, it was evident in the surreal margin of victory on the
scoreboard.
In taking a 2-1 lead in the four-of-seven-game series, Chicago
ran the Jazz off its home floor after splitting two games in Salt
Lake City last week. With victories here in Games 4 and 5, the
Bulls could claim their sixth title in eight years without going
back to Utah.
The Jazz? Against the smothering defense of Harper, Jordan and
Scottie Pippen, Stockton and Malone executed the
pick-and-roll-over. They combined for 12 turnovers, and they did
not play in the fourth quarter as the Bulls ran up the score and
began laughing and high-fiving on the bench.
The closest a team had come to looking this futile was when
Indiana scored 55 points against San Antonio in a regular-season
game last March 29. In the playoffs, teams had scored as few as 64
points four times.
Utah committed 26 turnovers and was outrebounded, 50-38. It was
down by 18 points at halftime and trailed by 72-45 after three
quarters. Toni Kukoc (16 points, 6 rebounds and 4 steals) and
Pippen (10 points, 4 rebounds and 4 assists) were the perfect
complements to Jordan.
They moved in synchronization, each player finding a seam or
angle to the rim. Yes, Jordan scored more points than anyone else,
24. But he invariably does that. To elevate his contributions above
those of his teammates would not do justice to the symphony the
Bulls were playing.
The Bulls played like the team the Jazz used to be: patient,
poised and potent with the ball in their hands.
The Jazz also set futility marks for the largest loss in a
finals game, surpassing Washington's 35-point blowout of Seattle in
1978, and for the fewest number of field goals in a game (21) and
points in a half (23).
Stockton has not been a factor the past two games. With Harper's
flailing arms and Pippen's ability to move his feet quicker than
the Utah point guard can dribble, he could not get the Jazz offense
kick-started.
The end of the third quarter was a carbon copy of the first
half, with Harper and Scott Burrell throwing down dunks as the
Bulls bounded out to a 72-45 lead. The building was electric, loud
enough to make you wonder if the Jazz didn't feel like the
tomato-can opponent in a heavyweight title fight instead of the
worthy contender that deserved to be here.
Sloan, who implied after Game 2 that his team was a bunch of
softies, called a timeout and looked at his players as if he did
not know them. The team that took care of Shaquille O'Neal's Lakers
in four straight games to win the Western Conference championship
had been reduced to the Denver Nuggets playing here in January.
Sloan tried everything. He inserted Greg Ostertag into the
starting lineup for Greg Foster. He implored his reserves to shake
things up and be active when they went into the game.
After struggling mightily from the field in the first two games,
Malone got out of the gate quick. He made his first six shots 12
of Utah's 14 first-quarter points and helped the Jazz ease the
transition into a hostile arena.
But his teammates offered no help early. Only two other Jazz
players had field goals through the first 15 minutes. If it wasn't
careless turnovers, the best-executing team in the game was given
the guillotine by Chicago's menacing defense.
The travel time and lack of rest from playing 48 hours earlier
was supposed to account for sloppy play on both ends, but the Bulls
looked more precise and poised than they had since the finals
began.
It was as if they had used the first two games to collect
themselves, to remember what it was like to be in control of a
series and not give ground to a challenger. Maybe it was Pippen
still trying to fool with Malone's mind.
Pippen has boasted before about his team's prowess. But never
before has he made such a brash prediction as the one he made as he
was leaving the Delta Center in Salt Lake City on Friday night.
Jean Tower Rennie, the founder of the Collateral Dames, one of
the first women's investment clubs in the United States, died on
May 31 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84. The cause was
heart failure, her family said.
Mrs. Rennie was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 3, 1914, the daughter
of Edwin Tower and Bessie Applegate Tower. Her mother's family was
instrumental in the founding of Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky.
Mrs. Rennie attended the Downer Seminary in Milwaukee
and Collegiate School in Louisville and graduated from Vassar
College in 1935. Although she had no formal training in finance,
Mrs. Rennie's lifelong interest in the stock market led to the
organization of the Collateral Dames in 1957. In the 15 years of
its existence, the club attracted chief executive officers and
economists to Milwaukee as speakers. Club members also spent a week
in New York, at the invitation of the New York Stock Exchange and
several leading companies.
Mrs. Rennie and her husband, William Roxburgh Rennie, a
manufacturers representative, were married in 1940. They were
active supporters of the English Speaking Union, an organization
that promotes relations between the United States and Britain, and
after her husband's death in 1985, Mrs. Rennie succeeded him on the
board of the organization.
Survivors include a son, Roxburgh Rennie of Providence, R.I.; a
daughter, Missie Rennie Taylor of Manhattan, and five
grandchildren. 
Samuel Jackson Lanahan, an authority on tax law who was a Golden
Glove eastern division champion in 1940, died on May 29, after
suffering a pulmonary embolism at his vacation home in Dartmouth,
England. He was 79 and lived in Trappe, Md.
Lanahan was a founding partner, in 1954, of Clark Lanahan, a
law firm in Washington that merged with Wilmer Broun and, in
1962, joined other firms to become Wilmer, Cutler Pickering. He
was a partner for 19 years and head of the London office for three
years. He retired in 1981.
Lanahan was born in Baltimore on Nov. 11, 1918, attended St.
Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and graduated from Princeton
University in 1941. In World War II, he was a navigator in the
Navy. He graduated from Columbia Law School in 1947.
He married Frances Scott Fitzgerald, the daughter of F. Scott
Fitzgerald, in 1943. They were divorced in 1968, and he later
married Sheila Nevius. He is survived by his wife; a son, Samuel,
of Corvallis, Ore.; two daughters, Eleanor Anne Lanahan of
Burlington, Vt., and Cecilia Lanahan Ross of Kennett Square, Pa.;
two stepchildren, Theodore Nevius of Washington and Katherine
Nevius of Arlington, Va.; a brother, William Wallace Lanahan Jr. of
Baltimore; his stepmother, Eleanor Addison Miles of Queenstown,
Md., and eight grandchildren. 
CHICAGO Indulge me while I clear out the Belmont Stakes
residue, but I do not see Michael Jordan and the Bulls fading in
the homestretch with another Triple Crown now in sight.
First of all, the trailer has to believe it has the ability to
catch up, but from the sight of the Utah Jazz in the second half
here on Sunday night, what we appear to have on our hands is a
pre-race favorite running without faith.
The Jazz did not quit Game 3 of the National Basketball
Association finals. They were dismissed from it. The only mail
delivered was the game itself, post-marked by the Jazz, Salt Lake
City. Just when people were forecasting photo finishes between
teams rated evenly matched, the Bulls wiped the Jazz out of the
picture, winning by 96-54 and taking a 2-1 series lead.
Same shots he always takes, the Jazz say. Same ones he always
makes. The problem with that rationale is that it fails to
acknowledge the psychological component of trying to wrest the
crown off Jordan's head. This is not the typical opponent. This is
not the normal setting. This is not the ordinary challenge, and
that not only goes for Malone but for the entire Utah team.
In the case of its best player, from the time Malone has been
playing basketball on the national level, he has been the
quintessential outsider, the muscular kid from a college, Louisiana
Tech, best known for its women's teams. As a pro, he has been
looked at by many of his peers as the Brother From Another Planet.
The African-American superstar who revels in the whitest of all NBA
markets, the big country biker and trucker who wouldn't be caught
dead dropping off a Mercedes with the trendy valet.
Mailman Malone stands alone, unless he is communing with John
Stockton on the pick-and-roll. That has been his message, and he
has delivered his share of politically incorrect diatribes, on
subjects ranging from Magic Johnson's popular return in 1992 (he
thought it wasn't a good idea) to the league's formerly hailed drug
policy (he thought it wasn't getting the job done). But these last
two springs, finally making it to the finals and the league's
premier stage, Malone has found himself face-to-face with the
ultimate establishment icon. It has become immeasurably difficult
to have his say in the face of true greatness.
Malone, the man the Jazz must follow to win, tried on Sunday
night to make a statement, clearing his throat by hitting his first
six shots. He scored 12 first-quarter points, but when he looked up
at the scoreboard, the Jazz had 14 and were trailing by 3.
This raised another sobering issue: the Bulls' ability to
control Stockton's dribble penetration with their long-limbed
defenders. Stockton is not as quick as he used to be, and this
becomes much more noticeable against a tough-minded Eastern
Conference team with a big, physical presence like Ron Harper than
it does against those sprouts-and-tomato defenders out West. Elvis'
team contests the kings of pick-and-roll a bit better than the
Lakers did, and Malone pays the price on the back end.
Over the last six minutes of the second quarter, the Jazz's
offense devolved into the Knicks'. Malone became quiet after Dennis
Rodman relieved Luc Longley. In one embarrassing run of wasted
possessions, Malone ran over Scottie Pippen on the break, Bryon
Russell turned a simple and uncontested inbounds pass to Stockton
into a backcourt violation, Stockton lost the ball deep in the
lane, Malone traveled in the post, then he threw up an air ball off
a runner in the lane.
Get the picture? Jordan and Toni Kukoc did, immediately abusing
their men off the dribble, rocketing the lead to 18 by the half and
creating visions of another trophy ceremony by late Friday night.
When Kukoc penetrates the way he did on Sunday night, forget it,
Chicago's panting sportswriters may as well begin the campaign to
keep this group together another five years.
Stockton most ominously finished with more turnovers (5) than
points (2). There were uncontested Chicago dunks. Jordan and Pippen
rested on the bench with impish smiles that gave way to raucous
laughter. The Bulls were cruising, in control of the series, ahead
in the backstretch.
A major event had to be canceled the day before it was scheduled
to take place. Two fighters (Akinwande and Ray Mercer) tested
positive for hepatitis B. Maria Nieves-Garcia couldn't fight
because she's 21 months pregnant. And Roberto Duran had his purse
garnished in a child-support case.
One, why isn't medical testing done well in advance of major
fights to avoid last-minute cancellations? Didn't we learn anything
from the scheduled Tommy Morrison-Arthur Weathers fight in 1996,
which was canceled the day of the event when Morrison tested
positive for the virus that causes AIDS?
Holyfield and Akinwande (who were to make $10 million and $2.5
million, respectively), the promoters, Showtime, cable distributors
and many more stand to lose a fortune because of an ill-advised
policy on testing. (And that doesn't take into account fans who
made travel plans and purchased tickets, for which they presumably
will get refunds.)
New York, where the fight was scheduled to be held Saturday,
requires that test results be submitted a minimum of five days
before the fight. (California requires a test for hepatitis B 30
days before licensing but requires testing only once a year.)
Why not? To protect everyone involved, athletic commissions
across the nation should require that test results be submitted a
month before !ital!major!off! fights or no license. Simple as that.
If that means a foreign fighter must fly into the United States
solely to take the test, so be it. Again, it would serve everyone including that fighter.
However, the Holyfield-Akinwande fight was made months ago. Even
without appropriate policies, the fighters could've should've! had their tests in long ago. Holyfield's were submitted weeks ago,
Petrillo said, while Akinwande (who fights out of Orlando, Fla.)
was tested Tuesday.
In Akinwande's case, the disease was at the infectious stage,
according to a doctor who studied the fighter's blood sample.
Without testing, it seems, Holyfield would've been at risk. At the
same time, all those who have worked closely with Akinwande including sparring partners !ital!were!off! at risk.
Well, if the powers that be are smart, they will after this. And
that includes California, which might want to test more frequently.
Looking forward: Oscar De La Hoya, who defends his WBC
welterweight title against unknown Frenchman Patrick Charpentier on
Saturday in El Paso, Texas, reiterated his desire to fight Felix
Trinidad in what would be an attractive non-heavyweight bout.
Arum, his promoter, said he met with Trinidad's handlers last
week. However, these are the early stages of negotiations.
Arum said he might be willing to guarantee Trinidad more money
than De La Hoya, but De La Hoya would get a percentage of the
profits.
Trinidad claims he no longer is under contract to promoter Don
King, but Arum said that's not so clear, which complicates
negotiations but isn't necessarily an insurmountable obstacle.
Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter
family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at
Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70
and lived in Dickson, Tenn.
She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems that
began over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, the
business office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, and
of her sister June Carter Cash.
The original Carter Family band, which helped kick-start the
country-music record industry in 1927, was begun by A.P. Carter, a
railroad worker and farmer from Maces Springs, Va.; his wife, Sara,
and Sara's cousin, Maybelle. The band grew with the occasional
addition of Maybelle's children, including Helen.
The family band lasted from 1927 to 1943, and it was of
inestimable importance to American music.
It disseminated traditional songs, established a widely imitated
small-group sound and built a set of templates that country,
bluegrass and folk musicians would draw upon the mountain hymn,
the love ballad, the cowboy tune and so on.
In 1943 Sara quit singing for good, and Maybelle started a new
band, Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, with her daughters as
permanent members.
Helen was 12 when she was introduced to the world over the
airwaves of XET in Monterrey, Mexico, and in her teen-age years
became the most dependable musician of her mother's band, playing
accordion, guitar and autoharp.
In the 1960s and '70s, she often appeared on radio and
television not as a member of a working group but simply as a
member of the famous clan. For example, she appeared on television
with her sister June and Cash.
In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she is
survived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; another
sister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, Glenn
Daniel, David Lawrence and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, and
six grandchildren.
The USGA, which along with the Royal Ancient is the official
rules-making body for all of golf, has decided the new, space-age
equipment on the market today threatens the integrity of the game.
And the USGA is determined to do something about it, targeting such
products as titanium drivers and long putters.
Fighting words, to be sure. But what do they mean? No official
proposal has been released, but the word is out that the USGA is
studying a number of changes in equipment rules, including a
crackdown on titanium drivers, setting a limit for lofts in irons,
banning long putters, limiting the lengths of shafts, and reducing
the maximum number of clubs allowed in a bag from 14 to 12.
USGA officials also have hinted they will have a significant
announcement on the proposal as early as the U.S. Open, which will
be June 18-21 at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. No official
decision to change the Rules of Golf could be made until the USGA
and the RA meet for the Quadrennial Rules Conference in 2000.
In the meantime, the major golf manufacturers have responded
swiftly and angrily. Callaway Golf, makers of the Great Big Bertha
and Greatest Big Bertha titanium drivers, which would be on the
USGA's extinction list if the rules were adopted, issued a 3{-page
news release announcing it would join with other companies in
opposing any such USGA rulings banning modern clubs. In addition,
Callaway bought full-page ads in the New York Times, USA Today and
Golf World to present its position.
But while the USGA is threatening and the manufacturing world is
reeling, the one organization that would be most affected if all
the new changes were adopted is taking a wait-and-see attitude.
The weekend hackers who dished out $500 a pop for a Big Bertha
driver might be disappointed if their weapon of choice is taboo.
But those golfers trying to make a living using the same driver on
the PGA Tour have considerably more to lose.
The PGA Tour is its own organization, separate from the USGA,
but it follows the rules as set down by the USGA. And PGA Tour
officials don't see that changing in the future, regardless of
which way the USGA rules on the equipment issue.
In other words, any sweeping changes in equipment rules made by
the USGA for their own competitions would also affect the events on
the PGA Tour as well. The pros could kiss their titanium drivers,
long putters and perimeter-weighted irons goodbye.
Some PGA Tour pros, such as The Woodlands Jeff Maggert, find it
a little hard to believe the USGA would go to such lengths.
Maggert agreed technology has come a long way in recent years.
But in his mind, the length of the putter and the type of the
driver make less of a difference than the size and condition of the
athlete using it.
Yet despite his disapproval of the USGA's proposals, Maggert
remained firm in his belief that if the USGA changes the rules, for
better or worse, the PGA Tour needs to follow them.
LOS ANGELES At first glance, when the Anaheim Angels took USC
ace Seth Etherton with the 18th pick in last week's Major League
Baseball amateur draft, it was a bit shocking.
True, by the end of USC's national-championship run, Etherton
was considered one of college baseball's most polished pitchers.
After he beat defending national champion Louisiana State on
Thursday in a must-win game in Omaha, Neb., he was 13-3 with an ERA
hovering around 3.00 and 182 strikeouts, a Pacific-10 single-season
record.
Still, the Angels taking a senior with little bargaining power
so high in the draft was surprising. It will give Etherton and
adviser Craig Landis an extra leg to stand on when negotiations get
under way. A closer look, however, reveals the Angels' motivations
are not totally without foundation. Etherton was burned in contract
negotiations a year ago after St. Louis made him a ninth-round pick
and he is eager to navigate an easier path this time around. It
will be easier knowing it takes less than a half-hour to get from
Edison Field to his parents' home in Dana Point, where he was
reared on Angels baseball.
As important is the Troy Glaus phenomenon. The Angels' first
pick a year ago held out all summer long, missing out on a full
minor-league season. Some think it cost him a spot on the big club
this season. Etherton will be much easier to pin down.
Also notable, the Angels realize that Glaus has made headlines
this season not only because of his numbers he had a
minor-league-high 19 homers (more than 30 other minor-league
!ital!teams!off!) at the time of his call-up last week to Triple-A
Vancouver but also because he went to nearby UCLA.
Second time's the charm: It was just before the 1995 season that
a struggling shortstop mired in the depths of the Detroit Tigers
organization decided to make a change.
Now, just three years later, Bryan Corey is a major-leaguer. He
was recently called up by his new club, the Arizona Diamondbacks,
as a pitcher.
Corey, 24, hit .128 in 180 at bats when he and the Tigers
decided he should be getting batters out, not being a batter that
got out. By 1996, he was 6-4 with a 1.21 ERA and 34 saves for
Single-A Fayetteville, thanks in part to a mean sinker. Last year,
he was 3-8 with nine saves at Double-A Jacksonville.
The D'Backs liked what they saw, taking him in the third round
of the 1997 expansion draft. At the time of his call-up, he was 3-0
with a 1.77 ERA. In three appearances with the big club, he has
allowed four earned runs and six hits in four innings.
Full speed ahead: With the draft complete, the short-season
Single-A leagues and rookie leagues will blossom from nothingness
to full-roster status for Opening Day II June 16.
First-year players accrued from the draft and free-agent
signings will report to two Single-A leagues (New York-Penn League
and Northwest League) and two Rookie League teams (Appalachian
League and Pioneer League).
Attorney General Janet Reno made the right call in preserving
the right of Oregon residents to seek physician-assisted suicide in
that state. Last November, Thomas Constantine, the administrator of
the federal Drug Enforcement Agency, announced that doctors in
Oregon who acted under that state's assisted suicide law would be
subject to severe federal sanctions, including revocation of their
right to prescribe drugs. The DEA is responsible for enforcing
federal drug laws, but it has no right to substitute its own
judgment for the judgment of Oregon voters who resoundingly
affirmed their support for the state's Death With Dignity Act by a
60 percent vote last November.
Unfortunately, leaders of the right-to-life movement are seizing
on the assisted-suicide issue as they have on abortion. Rep. Chris
Smith of New Jersey, a vociferous opponent of abortion rights, has
said there will be efforts in Congress to undo Ms. Reno's decision
on the Oregon case. As in the reproductive rights arena,
conservatives who otherwise oppose federal control are eager to
substitute their moral judgments for those of local voters when the
outcome is not to their liking.
The nation is beginning to grapple with an individual's right to
control how a life ends. A national poll last fall showed that 68
percent of respondents supported physician-assisted suicide.
Oregon's law is likely to be replicated in other states. Ms. Reno's
decision allows voters in all states to act according to their
values.
CHICAGO There is something crusty and hardened about Jazz
Coach Jerry Sloan, something that is as rugged as the farm life he
prefers. Out of this personality was born a player who used to
crash to the floor for every loose ball and defend with a clenched
jaw as a Chicago Bull, once upon a time.
So it had to rip at his callous fiber to see how unequipped his
Jazz team was to counter the snarling defense of a Bulls team that
all but kicked sand in the face of his passive players on Sunday
night at the United Center.
With their crew cuts and Scout badges, good manners and
accounting degrees, the Jazz played the part of a team from the
Western Conference typically overwhelmed by a physical East team
that hit and hit hard. When it was over, the Jazz went whimpering
away after being humiliated, 96-54, in Game 3 of the National
Basketball Association finals. The Bulls now have a 2-1 lead in the
four-of-seven-games series.
The Jazz was simply bludgeoned by an aggressive defense that
left the team with 26 turnovers, and pushed aside as it found
itself on the wimpy side of a 50-38 rebounding advantage for the
Bulls. The Jazz was from the West, all right: all talent, no grit.
Instead of countering with toughness, the Jazz settled for
passive jumpers, rushed their plays and fell right into the hands
of a Bulls' team that was driving to the basket and pressuring the
ball.
It started with Ron Harper and Scottie Pippen (two steals). Then
Toni Kukoc and Dennis Rodman joined in. Early on, Harper and Pippen
applied ball pressure that overwhelmed even the calmest of Jazz
players, such as John Stockton. At times, Harper and Pippen would
double up on Stockton at half court, cutting down on his ability to
get his team into a pick-and-roll mode. The more pressure Harper
and Pippen applied, the more Stockton unraveled.
By the end of the first half, Stockton had an uncharacteristic
four turnovers, three in a disastrous second quarter. This is when
the Bulls provided the squeeze on the Jazz. In the second quarter,
the Jazz turned the ball over nine times.
The Bulls didn't let up. Pippen was relentless as he roved the
court, using his long arms to disrupt Stockton's passing lanes and
to interrupt any driving layups by the Jazz. At one point, he
planted his body in front of a charging Karl Malone and took a
charge in the second quarter just as the Jazz started to wobble.
The Bulls stopped the Jazz in its tracks with a defense that was
quick and irritating, especially when it came to Malone.
After Malone made his first six shots the bulk of which came
around an immobile Luc Longley in the first quarter Coach Phil
Jackson sent Dennis Rodman onto the scene at the end of the first
quarter.
Once Rodman stepped onto the floor, Malone lost his edge. He
could not spin by Rodman. He had to score around him as elbows
poked his back and knees banged his shins. Malone made just two of
his next five shots and had seven turnovers.
As Pippen, Harper and Rodman applied pressure, Kukoc was
throwing himself on the floor looking for loose balls and reaching
in to strip the Jazz. He ended the game with six rebounds and four
steals.
He was the perfect complement to a defense that left the Jazz
looking just like any other team from the West usually looks when
faced with the grizzled teams from the East: physically outmatched.
LOS ANGELES Hard to guess this early which will end up as the
!ital!piece de resistance!off! of Web sites once the !ital!Coupe du
Monde!off! begins in France this week.
Maybe the best way to approach it is stick to a few basics until
you've decided just how much information you're willing to accept.
The official World Cup site: In English and French, this site
(www.worldcup98.org) has what you'd expect without too much
advertising clutter. Did you know there are 704 players
participating? Find all their names here. In the store, the
cheapest thing you can pick up (depending on the exchange rate) is
a set of five marbles with the little Woody Woodpecker mascot for
$2.69.
The official U.S. soccer site: Mostly full of press releases
disguised as stories about what's going with the American team
(www.us-soccer.com), but that can be enough to satisfy those who
aren't interested in negative publicity about the team.
The best English resources: Since ABC and ESPN have the U.S.
broadcasting rights, expect ESPN's SportsZone
(http://espn.sportszone) to supplement the event. It already has a
contest (like the NCAA Tournament pool) in which you can pick the
final 16, then finish off the bracket. The other recommended source
is by by Yahoo! (http://soccer.yahoo.com/wc98), which provides
plenty of depth.
The instant goal site: Sign up for free at this place
(www.kgoal.net) and they'll send you an e-mail every time a goal is
scored during the 64 games. Which could be as many as 12 e-mails!
In English, French, Spanish, Swedish or Dutch. You can also
unsubscribe if the service is getting you in trouble at the office.
Meanwhile: On the official NBA site (www.nba.com) the newest toy
is called NBA.cam, which allows computer users to watch the NBA
Finals through one of four small robotic cameras placed in the
Delta Center in Salt Lake City and the United Center in Chicago. If
someone else is already playing with the cameras, you get to see
what they're looking at....
There is England the remarkably successful self-described
keeper of the sport where controversial decisions and rabid fans
are as abundant as ever.
There is Colombia, a soccer hotbed of South America, where
passions run so deep that four years ago a player was killed,
reportedly by mobsters, after an own-goal against the United States
led to the Colombians' ouster from the tournament.
There is Romania, a classic Eastern European side with
experience, talent and flawless execution. And there is Tunisia, a
group of creative North Africans with a style all its own.
It stands to reason, then, that picking a winner out of this
group has proved more difficult than last December when these
nations were drawn together.
After the World Cup draw, England was penciled in almost
immediately as the team to beat in Group G. But not so fast. After
playing well throughout qualification last year, obviously
determined to make up for failing to qualify for the World Cup in
1994, the English side has since struggled on the field and made a
hugely controversial decision off it.
Paul Gascoigne, a popular player whom many consider the greatest
midfielder in England's history, was cut from the World Cup roster
late last month by coach Glenn Hoddle. The move stunned the nation
and spawned numerous debates across England and within the team.
Gascoigne was the only player on the English roster with World Cup
experience, from England's semifinals appearance in 1990. He also
was considered the only true playmaker.
But on top of ankle and groin injuries that slowed Gascoigne
during World Cup training, he was a well-known carouser and
admitted hard drinker who regularly found himself on the cover of
the British tabloids.
That much became clear during recent English exhibition matches.
After only one half of a game against Belgium last month, Gascoigne
asked to be removed from the field, citing a leg injury.
In the wake of Hoddle's decision and England's sluggish efforts
in the exhibitions, British bookmaker Ladbrokes last week
lengthened the odds of England's winning the World Cup from 7-1 to
8-1.
Clearly, the English remain a threat not just to win the group,
but the World Cup. But they also need to regroup fast, or Colombia
and Romania could again leave the English wondering what happened.
The Romanians might have the team on the biggest roll. Veterans
Gheorghe Hagi, Gheorghe Popescu and Bogdan Stelea are performing
well in what should be this talented group's last hurrah. And
remember, this is a team that defeated Colombia, the United States
and Argentina four years ago before losing on penalty kicks to
Sweden.
The qualifying competition was relatively weak this time for the
Romanians, but they still went 9-0-1, and that's hard to ignore.
Four years ago, many experts pegged this team to win the
tournament before disaster struck. Andres Escobar, the murdered
defender, will be a name forever etched in World Cup history.
This time, Colombia has been a mere afterthought to many
handicappers of the World Cup. But many players off the 1994 team
return this summer in hopes of easing some of the bad memories. The
likes of Carlos Valderrama and Freddy Rincon might be a step
slower, but their skills remain.
It should be a remarkably entertaining group, start to finish,
with only the Tunisians likely to finish where expected at the
bottom.
Let the seller beware. That appears to be a principal lesson in
the decision of Merrill Lynch to pay $437 million to settle civil
suits brought against it in the wake of the Orange County, Calif.,
bankruptcy.
Merrill Lynch warned Robert Citron, the county treasurer who
later pleaded guilty to securities fraud, that his strategy of
borrowing money to buy risky derivative securities for the county's
investment fund might blow up if interest rates rose, as they did.
But Citron wanted to keep buying, and Merrill kept selling.
Merrill was hardly alone in knowing the strategy was risky. It
had become a political issue in Orange County, but the county
supervisors, happy to spend the profits generated when the strategy
was working, did not intervene.
Merrill's settlements with the county and a water district that
had invested in the county fund serve as a warning to Wall Street
that it may face penalties even if a customer voluntarily buys
something that was inappropriate.
Orange County had refused to calculate a market value of its
investments, and no one forced it to do so. Had the declining
market values been readily available, the risks would have become
clearer to the public much earlier. Better accounting might have
kept this debacle from happening.
It is an odd conjunction of opposing political cultures. Turkey,
the emblem of secular governance in the Middle East, and Iran, the
heartland of Islamic fundamentalism, are both resisting powerful
internal political movements by prosecuting the mayors of their
largest cities, Istanbul and Tehran.
Istanbul's mayor, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was recently convicted
of inciting hatred in a speech last year. Tehran's mayor,
Gholamhossein Karbaschi, just went on trial on corruption charges.
In truth, the two men are being pursued less for what they said or
did than for what they represent, which is a strong desire among
their countrymen for a more inclusive, less rigid brand of
politics.
In attacking the mayors, the rulers of Turkey and Iran have
shown a potentially fatal inability to practice moderation in
politics. The defenders of the faith in each nation will likely
discover someday that in their unyielding pursuit of conformity
they only strengthened and radicalized the popular causes they
feared and tried to suppress.
In both prosecutions, the legal battle itself is just a skirmish
in a broader struggle between ruling authority and a growing
political opposition. In both cases, the mayors represent an
opportunity for peaceful change that should not be lost.
The rulers of Turkey and Iran would acknowledge no common
thread. If anything, they would maintain that the two cases show
how different the countries are. The generals who wield real power
in Turkey are determined to snuff out any Islamic political
activity, fearful it will undermine their secular state and even
lead eventually to an Iranian-style revolution. The clerics who run
Iran are intolerant of civil authority and see it as a threat to
the Islamic code.
But when the ideological and legal veneer is removed, the two
cases are essentially about the same thing: extremism in the
defense of power.
I saw this tendency when I visited Turkey and Iran last fall. A
Turkish general who denounced his country's main Islamic political
party was just as intransigent as a cleric in Tehran who opposed
reform. Though the two nations view each other as political
antagonists, and their handling of religious matters could not be
more different, the Turkish generals and Iranian clerics are
allergic to genuine democracy. The generals are secular
fundamentalists, the clerics Islamic fundamentalists.
Erdogan's offense was not that he sowed discord, but that he was
a leader of the Welfare Party, the Islamic political organization
that drew the largest number of votes in parliamentary elections
three years ago. The party briefly governed Turkey in a coalition,
but was then displaced and ultimately outlawed at the behest of the
generals.
Karbaschi is an ally of President Mohammad Khatami, who was
elected last year in an overwhelming protest vote against the
clerical stranglehold in Iran. Whether the mayor embezzled city
accounts as charged may never be known. What is clear is that
Khatami's opponents went after the mayor to weaken Khatami and his
reform program.
Last November, when I boarded an Iran Air jumbo jet for the
flight from Istanbul to Tehran, I thought I was about to traverse a
vast political expanse. The differences of culture, language and
history are indeed great. But after a few days in Tehran, I found
the politics of exclusion and control were not that dissimilar. It
is a pity, for the people of Turkey and Iran have the energy and
heart to fashion democratic societies, if they only had the
chance. 
In 1995, the Mariner turning point came on August 24th against
the Yankees. The M's came back to win and then took off on a molten
tear, stealing the American League West and you know the rest.
For any of the 41,514 fans who stuck around at the Kingdome,
there was an opportunity to feel that same sort of hopeful rush.
After trailing the Dodgers so badly all day, the Mariners sent
the winning run to the plate in the ninth. An injured David Segui
came to pinch hit. He had the bases loaded and the score was 7-4
and you just know Segui, who has three career grand slams and a
fierce competitive drive that makes even Piniella proud, wanted to
smack his team over the top.
But when Segui swung for strike three, the game ended with a
frustrating abruptness, and so did the moment of Mariner optimism.
It left you wondering with considerable good reason what the
remaining 100 games of the season will bring.
What will it take to turn around the 1998 Mariners? What can be
done to salvage a season that has gone from World Series contender
to a disheartening but ever-more-obvious June surrender?
There has to be an answer. There has to be something that can
inject some life, some hope into a club that should not be this
down and out.
Yet, as the losses mount and the season wilts, there is no clue
about what can be done. The silence coming from the Mariners has
grown deafening.
In the wake of the decision last week to not trade Randy
Johnson, Mariner officials have taken a bunker mentality, refusing
to comment on what their mind-set is regarding their team and their
options.
Their final word on the Johnson situation was that they won't be
trading the lefty this season. What this means is either the M's
aren't telling the truth, or they are willing to let the Big Unit
just walk away after this season with the promise of getting
nothing for him except two draft picks.
You wonder why so much time has gone by with no action being
taken to make a fix. The bullpen has crushed the Mariners' spirit
too many times. The defense has gone from bad to worse, which is
what happens to a team that's struggling.
You would think the best time to make a change has already come
and gone, which makes you wonder why time is dripping like molasses
and Woody Woodword's feet seem so stuck in all the goop.
Does ownership think Woodward and Piniella have the players they
requested in the offseason, so it's up to Woodward and Piniella to
get the job done now with the personnel in hand?
Are Piniella and Woodward, the team's vice president of baseball
operations, frustrated at what may have ultimately been an
ownership decision to not trade Johnson, since perhaps someone
keeps hoping the old Randy Johnson will just come out every fifth
day and pitch his brains out?
Is there such a split between Mariner ownership and the baseball
side of the organization that the franchise is now incapable of
arriving at a decision about what changes to make?
Although Piniella would not talk specifically, it seems as if he
and Woodward have determined what changes they need to make. Now,
the urgent question is when and if those changes can be made.
Meanwhile, evidence for the need of a shake-up keeps mounting.
After a four-error loss to the Dodgers Saturday, Piniella promised
some changes for Sunday's game. But when he wrote up the day's
lineup card, everything remained status quo.
Joey Cora was back out at second base. Russ Davis was on third.
The two biggest culprits in the Mariners' American League-worst
defensive department were sent back out to do the jobs they were
hired to do.
With no depth either on the big club or down on the farm, the
Mariner skipper simply does not have the pieces necessary to shake
things up.
It only takes one game to start a win streak. A turnaround is
conceivable, but not without some bold intervention.
SEATTLE After suggesting Saturday night that some lineup
changes were in store, Mariner manager Lou Piniella stuck with
basically the same starters Sunday and got a similar result in the
series finale against the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Gary Sheffield and Eric Karros slugged solo home runs and the
Dodgers blooped losing pitcher Jamie Moyer into submission during a
game-clinching five-run rally in the sixth inning as the Mariners
fell eight games below .500 (27-35) for the first time since ending
the 1994 season with a 49-63 record.
The M's went down with a ninth-inning fight, scoring three runs
and then loading the bases to bring the potential winning run to
the plate. Sore-footed pinch-hitter David Segui struck out.
Ken Griffey Jr. hit his 24th homer in the ninth but otherwise
had an rare dismal game striking out three times and misplaying a
line drive into right-center field for his third error of the
season.
Segui, the only lineup change and only because he has a sore
right foot took three swings against Antonio Osuna, missing all
three.
As they returned to their clubhouse, the Mariners continued to
rub their collective eyes in disbelief. They left 13 more
baserunners on base. And popups fell in front of Griffey and right
fielder Rob Ducey to fuel the Dodgers' big fifth inning.
The Dodgers, who won the final two games of the interleague
series, rode the solid pitching of starter Darren Dreifort for
eight innings. The right-hander, whom the Mariners reportedly
requested in recent trade talks involving Randy Johnson, spaced
nine hits and got a superb defensive play by second baseman Eric
Young, who deprived Edgar Martinez of a run-scoring single in the
third inning.
Seattle was 0-for-7 with runners in scoring position until
Rodriguez singled home Cora from third base in the seventh inning.
Not quite, Jerry. And a longer gape at the final score would
explain that the Bulls offense in Game 3 of the NBA Finals was
hardly the difference at United Center last night.
Sure, the Bulls beat ragged the old cliche of defense winning
championships. Yep, the Jazz are tired of hearing about how good
the Bulls are as they shoot for a sixth championship.
By the way, after Sunday's fill in the discerning adjective
here the Jazz are broken and picking up the pieces.
It only seems as if Utah has been eliminated from the Finals.
The series is far from over. However, if ever was such a thing as a
commanding 2-1 lead, the Bulls have just that.
(BBOX)Utah's point total was the fewest ever by a team in an NBA
game since the advent of the 24-second shot clock in 1954.
(BBOX)The Jazz made just 21 field goals and scored only 23
points in the second half the fewest ever in an NBA Finals game.
In addition, Chicago has never lost a playoff series after
taking the lead. Not only have they stolen the homecourt advantage
in this series, Games 4 and 5 are at United Center. The Bulls are
8-1 at home in the playoffs.
Malone watched the waning moments of Game 3 from the bench. The
Bulls led by 18 points at halftime and owned a 27-point advantage
by the start of the fourth quarter.
Chicago snatched the game's momentum with one simple yet
hard-to-do adjustment. They controlled Malone and John Stockton,
and the rest of Utah's pieces fell apart.
Scottie Pippen's ability to roam and disrupt Stockton was the
key. Pippen often defended whomever was an offensive liability on
the floor for Utah. As soon as Stockton crossed midcourt, Pippen
doubled off his man and ran toward Stockton.
The strategy closed down the passing lanes and frustrated the
NBA's all-time assists leader. Stockton had seven assists and five
turnovers.
The pick and roll Utah methodically destroys opponents with went
stale. Malone rebounded from poor performances in the first two
games and scored 22 points on 8-of-11 shooting. But the Jazz had
just 16 assists and shot 30 percent as a team.
The Bulls even checked Malone, who hit his first six shots.
Bulls coach Phil Jackson switched Dennis Rodman to guard Malone
instead of Luc Longley. Malone went just 2 of 4 in the second half
with Rodman badgering him.
There is, however, the small problem of when Chicago is running
its system to perfection. That is the simplest explanation for last
night a game in which the team with one of the game's best
offensive players won with offense being an afterthought.
In an era when hair color is no longer a fiat of nature but a
routine fashion choice, it is easy to forget that as recently as
the mid-1950s hair coloring was such an exotic exception to a
cultural norm that only 7 percent of American women dared dye their
hair, mainly actresses, models and other fast women.
Once the lone female copywriter at the giant Foote, Cone Belding advertising agency, Miss Polykoff became the agency's lone
female executive vice president, the toast of Madison Avenue and
the 1967 Advertising Woman of the Year.
By the time she arrived at Foote, Cone Belding in time to take
over the new Clairol account in 1955, Miss Polykoff, who had
written her first advertising copy as a teen-age secretary at
Harper's Bazaar, had long since established herself as a star in
retail advertising, first for a series of department and variety
stores, including Bamberger's and Kresge in Newark, then for New
York agencies with retail accounts.
Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above her
career, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000
so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George Halperin.
After he died in 1961, the agency doubled her salary twice in less
than a decade, and when she retired in 1973 to open an agency under
her own name she had been Foote, Cone's highest paid salaried
employee for many years.
She is survived by two daughters, Laurie Zucker of Athens, Ohio,
and Alix Nelson Frick of Manhattan, the president of Franklin Spier
Advertising; a sister, Lillian Ovberg of Glen Cove, N.Y., and three
grandchildren.
GARDEN CITY, N.Y. His horse seemed to have won a Triple Crown.
And then he seemed to have lost it, and then won it, and finally,
he lost it, not by a nose, by a nostril.
Now, six hours later, Mike Pegram, the Mount Vernon owner of
Real Quiet, stood at the end of a ballroom in a Long Island hotel,
surrounded by a bottle of beer, a plate of shrimp and 300 of his
closest friends.
If there was an ache deep within Pegram at having come so close
to getting his maligned horse engraved in the sport's history only to lose so breathtakingly in the Belmont Stakes he didn't
betray it.
Pegram bounced in and out of the party he was throwing to hug
old friends and trade war stories.
They were there from Princeton, Ind., the place of his youth,
old buddies like Rick Wheeler and Chuck Winters, whose fathers knew
his father.
They were there from Mount Vernon, folks like Robbie Slayton,
who caught Pegram's Little League fastballs from age 8 in
Princeton, and then moved out to join him in 1979.
Michelle Slayton, his wife, was there. Twenty-two years ago, she
interviewed with Pegram for a job on the counter crew at the
McDonald's in Oak Harbor. Today, she's director of operations for
the string of 22 fast-food outlets Pegram owns north of Seattle.
Many of Pegram's longtime Mount Vernon friends were on hand,
people like former Skagit County district court judge John Kamb and
his son Tommy, an attorney.
Bob Baffert, Real Quiet's trainer, was there, and so was jockey
Kent Desormeaux. Bob and Beverly Lewis, owners of the 1997 Belmont
bridesmaid, Silver Charm, also made it.
For everybody, there was still a sense of numbness at what they
had seen a few miles to the west at Belmont. A horse losing the
Triple Crown by a nose? That's like Mark McGwire being denied Roger
Maris' home run record on his last at-bat of the season on a
leaping catch over the outfield wall.
It will forever be alleged in many quarters that Desormeaux
didn't give Real Quiet the best ride, that he charged too early on
the demanding 1{-mile oval, and then he initiated the bumping.
What a five-week trip it was for Real Quiet's people, especially
for the 46-year-old Pegram. He was Jed Clampett on Rodeo Drive. He
rang the opening bell the other day on Wall Street. He stopped to
sleep when he could.
A sniff short of history, Real Quiet will go down as the 14th
horse to win the first two legs of the Triple Crown before being
denied here. Bought for $17,000 at a yearling sale and unimpressive
as a 2-year-old, he may be recalled modestly unless he certifies
his excellence the next couple of years.
Pegram's imprint may be more lasting. His party was the
personification of his tweaking of horse racing's establishment. He
interrupted a conversation once to join a dice game.
Pegram hopes the industry doesn't miss the message of his
campaign with Real Quiet. Some 80,162 fans flooded the Belmont,
second-largest crowd in the track's 93-year history.
It is Pegram's contention that some of the lag in racing
interest has been caused by the industry's unresponsiveness to the
masses.
Will this experience change Pegram? Will he be tempted to raise
the ante at a yearling sale in an attempt to hit it big once more?
Now he was accepting a string of hugs and thanks for the party,
and also for the ride. He was having fun, the best way Mike Pegram
knows to wash away the pain.
LOS ANGELES Veronica Martinez spent five hours in a jail where
she wasn't fed lunch and her cellmate was a drugged-out woman with
a queasy stomach.
Then she was led in handcuffs from her cell to a courtroom in
L.A.'s San Fernando Valley.
But the 25-year-old woman from the suburb of Tujunga was not a
criminal suspect. In fact, prosecutors said, she was the victim.
She was the chief witness against her boyfriend, who was on
trial on a misdemeanor charge of punching her in January. Like many
women in similar positions, she did not want to testify. The judge
jailed her to make sure she took the stand.
Martinez's case represents a trend that victims and defense
attorneys say has become all too common since the O.J. Simpson
case: In an effort to crack down on domestic violence, prosecutors
and judges are getting increasingly aggressive with victims who
refuse to testify or change their stories.
These women may find themselves threatened with prosecution for
filing a false police report. If they insist the original story
they gave police was a lie, then they are told they are guilty of a
crime.
And sometimes, albeit it rarely, women wind up in custody to
make sure they take the stand at trial. A woman who misses a court
appearance might find police at her doorstep with a pair of
handcuffs and a warrant.
Municipal Court Judge Roy M. Carstairs jailed Martinez because
he said her refusal to testify voluntarily would have sabotaged the
trial.
Prosecutors say such tactics are designed to give victims as
little control as possible over the outcome of a domestic violence
case. That way the accused abuser can't wiggle out of a criminal
charge by intimidating his spouse or promising her he'll change.
Bloomquist said her office requests body attachment in less than
5 percent of all cases, and only when the woman makes clear she
won't come voluntarily.
Critics find such tactics distasteful and paternalistic. They
accuse prosecutors of assuming every victim who tries to recant is
too fearful or weak to decide what's in her own best interest. In
no other type of crime, they argue, would the victim have so little
control over how a case is handled.
And defense lawyers argue that such tactics prevent women from
changing the stories they initially told police even when those
stories were heat-of-the-moment exaggerations or outright lies.
Deputy Public Defender Bill Weiss, who heads the Van Nuys office
northwest of downtown Los Angeles, said one prosecutor routinely
would take the recanting witness into a small room and threaten her
with immediate arrest for filing false police reports. Weiss said
he learned about the practice after several women complained to
lawyers in his office.
Indeed, it's become a common refrain for women to say they've
been threatened with losing their children if they don't cooperate,
defense lawyers say.
Deputy District Attorney Pam Booth, who heads the DA's office in
nearby El Monte, said her office alerts the county's Department of
Children's Services whenever a child is directly involved or
witnesses an act of domestic violence. It's up to DCS to open an
investigation, she said.
Deputy Public Defender Robin Berkovitz cited a recent Downtown
case where her client was charged with threatening his former
girlfriend with a gun. The woman later recanted, saying she was
jealous to see her boyfriend with another man.
The woman took the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination at
a preliminary hearing, preventing Berkovitz from being able to
question her on the stand. Her client later pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor and served 120 days in jail.
The woman's presence at trial isn't always vital for a
conviction, especially with a new law that permits a jury to hear
certain statements a woman made to police but who then is
unavailable to testify. The law was passed in response to the
Simpson case.
Still, in some cases prosecutors or judges decide the victim
needs to be in court. A woman's presence is often important in
misdemeanor cases where police don't have any independent proof of
physical injury.
Such was the case at the trial of Luis Manuel Roman the one in
which Martinez was the star witness. In January, police arrested
Roman in Tujunga after Martinez called 911. Roman is the father of
three of Martinez's children. He was on probation for hitting her
in 1996.
In the latest incident, police say Martinez told them Roman hit
her several times, according to Deputy City Attorney Jose Egurbide,
who prosecuted the case. She had no bruises or other signs of
injury, Egurbide said.
Last week, Martinez said she never told police he hit her. She
said she called 911 because the argument was getting heated and she
wanted him out of the house.
Egurbide notes that Martinez also tried to change her story in
1996. He said he never threatened her, he simply advised her she
might need her own lawyer.
With Martinez uncooperative, Egurbide decided to try the case
without her. Nonetheless, on April 9, in the middle of the trial,
Carstairs ordered a body attachment for Martinez when she failed to
show up in court. When she arrived the next day, the judge
threatened to jail her immediately but released her when she
promised to show up promptly the next morning.
The next morning, she was late. Carstairs ordered her into
custody until she testified later that afternoon. The trial ended
with a hung jury and Roman received a 60-day jail sentence for a
probation violation. He was released from custody last week.
Before the trial, Martinez was studying to become a probation
officer. She now works as a retail clerk. She said the experience
changed her mind about a career in criminal justice.
Erika Cheetham, an English medieval scholar who made a fortune
translating the predictions of the 16th-century physician and
astrologer Nostradamus, who gazed not only at the stars but also,
legend had it, into a brass bowl of water to see visions of the
future, died on May 3 in London. She was 58.
They were on mass-market paperback best-seller lists for years
in the United States, Britain and other countries, and, since the
first book appeared in 1973, they have never been out of print.
But being a closet Lutheran in a time of the Inquisitions held
to punish heretics, most of Nostradamus' prophesies were cryptic
and written in a mix of archaic French, Latin, Greek, Italian or
English. Translators contended that the quatrains contained codes,
anagrams, hints and fragments of meaning that, put together, were
predictions of coming events. A reference to a figure named Hister
was taken as code for Hitler.
Erika McMahon-Turner was born in London on July 7, 1939, a
daughter of wealthy parents, Eric Turner, under secretary to the
Admiralty, and Helen Lilian McMahon Turner. She attended a convent
school but was expelled for writing an essay contending that God
did not exist. She had an interest even then in the paranormal and
the prophetic. Later, on gaining acceptance to St. Anne's College,
Oxford, she cut a stylish, aristocratic figure, someone who went
riding with the Aga Khan and married a Grenadier Guard, James
Nicholas Milne Cheetham.
After receiving her Ph.D. she became a staff writer for The
London Daily Mail. She wrote an article on Nostradamus in 1961 and
two years later began translating his work in earnest.
Indeed, at the start of the 1990s at least 10 Nostradamus titles
were in print, and with the advent of the Persian Gulf war,
bookstores in Britain and the United States were selling out, with
total sales tripling in some cases.
The dysfunctional-yet-dominant Bulls put an unprecedented
whipping on the Utah Jazz and a stranglehold on the NBA Finals
Sunday night with a record-breaking 96-54 Game 3 victory at the
United Center.
Chicago held the Jazz to the fewest points since the invention
of the 24-second shot clock (1954-55) while also producing the most
lopsided margin in Finals history. The Jazz shattered the record
for fewest points in a Finals game (was 71), eclipsed the record
for fewest points in any game (was 55), set marks with 21 field
goals, 23 second-half points and easily topped the largest margin
of defeat (was 35) via the 42-point debacle.
It was clearly Chicago's best game of the playoffs, and Utah's
worst. That toxic combination produced Bulls leads of more than 30
points throughout the second half and swayed experts to now
consider a Chicago four-game run a real possibility. No home team
in NBA history has swept the middle three games under the 2-3-2
format, but the Bulls have all the momentum heading into
Wednesday's Game 4.
The road to Chicago's Six-cess goes through its defense, which
totally suffocated a Utah half-court offense considered one of the
best in the history of basketball. The Jazz, looking more like the
Mavericks' anemic offense of the past two seasons, made 21 baskets
and committed 26 turnovers.
The Bulls smothered the Jazz during a first half in which Utah
almost totally unraveled offensively. Even the usually unflappable
John Stockton became frazzled, committing four turnovers and two
silly fouls in the last minute of a half that ended with Chicago
totally in control at 49-31.
Malone drilled his first six shots, but then went scoreless the
last 15:32 of the half against Dennis Rodman's more aggressive,
physical defense. Seemingly in an unstoppable rhythm against Luc
Longley early, Malone traveled, was called for a charge and
launched an awful airball jump-hook in his only second-quarter shot
against Rodman.
Chicago, dedicated to keeping Stockton out of the middle, also
was successful in taking the Jazz out of its pet pick-and-roll.
Scottie Pippen roamed off Utah's ineffective centers, allowing him
to trap Stockton toward the sideline just past mid-court. Jazz
players not named Malone missed 19 of their first 20 shots including 11 in a row as Chicago scored the last eight points of
the first quarter for a 17-14 lead.
Two driving runners by Pippen took the lead to seven, from which
point the Bulls' Doberman Defense took over. Perennial
all-defensive team members Rodman, Jordan and Pippen attacked and
stifled Utah into missed layups and an embarrassing back-court
violation by Stockton. At one point, the rattled Jazz had 26 points
and 16 turnovers as they were only able to run seven first-half
pick-and-rolls for eight points.
The exclamation point came late in the half as Scott Burrell and
Ron Harper made steals that led to four points in the final 19
seconds to push the lead to 18.
Surprisingly, the Bulls did make one mistake yesterday. They
should have saved this classic performance for the series clincher.
LOS ANGELES Going out on top with USC's College World Series
win, recently deposed play-by-play man Larry Kahn and
broadcast/business partner Mike Lamb delivered fairly classy
parting shots at the end of the broadcast on KPLS-AM (830) Saturday which probably whizzed right by anyone in the Valley who had no
chance of picking up the reception from the Orange County station
on their transistors.
 'Twas fitting that the last game Kahn was allowed to do as the
radio voice of USC sports was a baseball game that ended up with a
football score....
 Fearing a Sports I!llustrated piece in the works will only
further besmirch Garrett's reputation, USC has sent out a
preemptive strike. Senior VP Dennis Dougherty's office dashed off a
multi-page memo to certain SC alums, explaining how some higher-ups
have been interviewed for this probably slanted story by Don Yeager
(publishing date unknown). They also issued a statement signed by
school prez Steven Sample and other esteemed colleagues pledging
full support for Garrett....
ANAHEIM Dante Bichette's fly ball to medium left field had the
fans at Edison Field streaming for the exits, if they hadn't left
already.
Trailing by two runs, the Colorado Rockies were down to their
last out, and Anaheim Angels left fielder Darin Erstad pounded his
glove in anticipation of the club's eighth consecutive victory. The
problem was, Erstad never saw the ball in the twilight sky. It
landed untouched and two baserunners scored on the play to tie the
game at 5.
Bizarre? Not as bizarre as the bottom of the ninth inning, when
the Angels managed to pull out a 6-5 victory Sunday before 42,493
at Edison Field.
The Angels won the game in the bottom of the ninth when Jim
Edmonds scored from third on a wild pitch that got past
shortstop-turned-catcher Neifi Perez. Perez was forced into playing
catcher after the Rockies pinch-hit for starter Kirt Manwaring in
the top of the ninth, and backup catcher Jeff Reed got knocked out
of the game in a home-plate collision with Dave Hollins earlier in
the bottom of the ninth.
Hollins opened the bottom of the ninth with a walk off Jerry
Dipoto, and Edmonds followed with a liner into the right-center
field gap. Third base coach Larry Bowa waved home Hollins, who
initiated a nasty collision with Reed. Reed held on to the ball but
had a bad cut on his right cheek.
Baylor has two emergency catchers Jason Bates and Greg
Colbrunn but both had already played in the game and were taken
out. Baylor decided to move Perez to catcher because he has good
hands. Perez said he had caught when he was 13, about 10 years ago.
Dipoto walked Tim Salmon intentionally to bring up Cecil
Fielder. On a 1-1 count, Dipoto threw a slider in the dirt and it
got away from Perez, allowing Edmonds to score the game-winner.
The win was the Angels' eighth in a row, their longest winning
streak since a 10-game streak July 5-17 last season. The victory
also moved the Angels (34-26) to within 2{ games of first-place
Texas in the AL West, the closest they've been since May 8 when
they were two games out. But this was most certainly the strangest
in the streak.
Angels reliever Rich DeLucia was deprived of his first save of
the season when Erstad lost Bichette's fly ball, but he wasn't
about to blame anyone.
Many Angels said the ninth inning was one of the weirdest
innings they've ever played in, but not Hollins, who played for the
Phillies in the early 1990's.
Included among Utah's playoff losses this season: a then-record
62 points in a 21-point setback in Game 3 against San Antonio in
the Western Conference semifinals on May 9, and setting all kinds
of negative records including fewest points ever in a game and
worst margin of defeat in Sunday night's Game 3 Finals loss to the
Bulls.
The Jazz responded to the awful against the Spurs by winning
Game 4 the next day, then reeling off seven consecutive victories.
Despite Sunday night's unprecedented debacle, they were already
talking about a revival in Wednesday's Game 4.
Some players and even coach Jerry Sloan mentioned they will
use Chicago's fourth-quarter performance as motivation. The Bulls
rested their starters, but reserves Steve Kerr and Jud Buechler
took and made 3-pointers even after the lead climbed past 35.
Perhaps, despite the odds, the Worm is turning. Tammy Castillo,
a mother of three from Twin Falls, Idaho, claims Dennis Rodman is
the only of 50 professional athletes to oblige her requests of an
autograph for her autistic son. Rodman apparently sent the family
an autographed jersey and a basketball signed by each of the Bulls.
... Jordan produced his signature move of the series in the third
quarter. While being tackled by 7-foot-2 center Greg Ostertag, he
stayed in the air long enough to flip up a right-handed reverse
layup that swished through the hoop. ALL THAT JAZZ
Foster has been a non-factor, producing only two points in 45
minutes in the Finals. ... The Jazz have been miserable in the
fourth quarter, getting outscored, 67-36. ... Ostertag started at
center in an attempt to help clog the defensive lane, but he
struggled with his vision because of a contact lense problem and
struggled with his layups because of coordination problem. ... For
the first time this season, the Jazz has lost consecutive games
with John Stockton in the lineup. INSIDE THE NUMBERS
Lorne Welch, a crack British glider pilot and yachtsman who
played parts in two of the most storied escapes by Allied prisoners
during World War II, died on May 15 at his home in Farnham,
England. He was 81.
Later, as a prisoner at Colditz, the 700-room Saxon castle the
Nazis used to hold incorrigible escape artists, he helped design a
two-man glider with a 32-foot wingspan that was to be launched from
one of the castle's towers. It was never tested because the
prisoners were liberated by American troops before an attempt could
be made.
After the war, Welch became the first man to glide twice across
the English Channel and to fly with the British team in four world
gliding championships.
As the son of a general in the British army, Welch seems to have
gravitated to aviation in part as an act of rebellion against the
father who had named him Patrick Palles Lorne Ephinstone Welch.
After secondary schooling at Stowe, Welch, who had an instinct
for solving technical problems but no formal training as an
engineer, worked with both marine and aircraft engines, designed
and built a sailing dinghy and flew gilders before joining the
Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve just in time to qualify as a
flight instructor at the outbreak of war in 1939.
He might have remained safely on training duty if, in May 1942,
the British had not announced plans to launch 1,000 bomber raids on
Nazi Germany, a strategy that required the services of virtually
every military plane and pilot.
Welch first fell into German hands in 1942, when his plane
crash-landed in a field in the Netherlands during his fourth
mission. Rather than flee, Welch chose to remain with his injured
bombardier and allowed himself to be taken prisoner. After the
wounded flier had been taken to a hospital, Welch made a bid for
freedom, breaking away at the Amsterdam train station. But, when
his pursuers fired into the crowd, he gave himself up in order to
save the lives of the civilians.
Of the 76 men who made their way through Harry the night of
March 24, 1944, only 3 made it safely to freedom. Of the 73 who
were recaptured, 50 were summarily executed on direct orders from
Hitler, an atrocity that was avenged after the war when the
executioners were caught and hanged for war crimes.
For all his contribution to the great escape, Welch was not
among those who went through the tunnel. Months earlier, on June
16, 1943, he and 23 other officers pretending to be on delousing
duty had simply walked out through the main gate, wearing fake
German uniforms made in a secret prison tailor shop.
A week later, Welch and a fellow British officer found a German
airfield and were on the verge of stealing a plane to fly to Sweden
when they were surprised by the plane's crew, who might have taken
them prisoner had they taken a closer look at their uniforms.
The next day the pair made a second attempt to steal a plane and
this time they were taken prisoner and packed off to Colditz.
With its high thick walls soaring above mountain bluffs and with
more guards than prisoners, Colditz was considered escape-proof.
But of 191 recorded escape attempts, 31 were successful. Indeed,
for all the German precautions, it was a tribute to the prisoners'
ingenuity that it was not until half a century later that workmen
found a secret radio that had kept the prisoners abreast of war
news.
By far the most audacious of the escape plots was the
construction of a full-sized, two-man glider in a walled-off
section of the castle attic. Welch used his technical expertise to
verify that the glider made of bed slats covered with
millet-treated sleeping-bag cloth would withstand the stresses of
flight, including being launched by a catapult powered by the
five-floor drop of a concrete-filled bathtub.
Although the glider's design was later judged airworthy by
aviation experts, what might have been the most spectacular escape
of the war was made unnecessary by the arrival of American forces
in April 1945. As the Colditz guards watched in sheepish disbelief,
Welch and other prisoners showed off the glider in the castle
courtyard.
After the war Welch worked on rocket engines, then became a
gliding instructor and wrote several books on gliding.
FRIDAY: KTLA's latest advertisement slogan is that it has the
Dodgers on EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT THIS SUMMER. Know what? They're
right. Colorado at Dodgers, Channel 5, 7 p.m. (Also: Fox/Channel 11
has Saturday's game at 1:05 p.m.; Fox Sports West 2 has Sunday's
game at 1:05 p.m.)
SATURDAY: The Capitals' incentive to win the Stanley Cup: An
invite to the White House! NHL Stanley Cup Finals: Washington vs.
Detroit Game 3, ESPN, 5 p.m. (Also: Fox/Channel 11 has Game 1,
Tuesday at 5 p.m.; ESPN has Game 2, Thursday at 5 p.m.).
SUNDAY: Oh, there's gonna be a sixth game back in Utah, all
right. It's in NBC's contract with the NBA that Michael Jordan is
milked as much as possible. NBA Finals: Chicago vs. Utah Game 6,
Channel 4, 4:30 p.m. (Also: NBC/Channel 4 has Game 4, Wednedsay at
6 p.m. and Game 5, Friday at 6 p.m.)
No member of the defensive backfield is spared from trash
talking. The locker room is infused with his hearty laugh and
boastful jabs with teammates.
And fellow Cowboys receivers are straining to keep up with his
legendary workout regimen, which has included extra pass patterns
after practice to become familiar with coach Chan Gailey's new
offense.
Irvin, who is admittedly having an enjoyable and productive
off-season for the first time in two years, said he is motivated
for himself and his teammates.
Irvin declines to discuss the multitude of strife in 1996 and
1997 including him pleading no contest to felony drug possession
charges, being suspended for the first five games of 1996 for
violating the league's substance abuse policy and then enduring the
ordeal of being falsely accused of sexual assault in 1997 leading
to last season's retirement talk that kept him from the Cowboys'
past two off-season programs.
And strange as it may seem, the story with Irvin heading into
the start of Cowboys training camp July 15 in Wichita Falls has
been all about football and how productive he could be in Gailey's
new offense after substandard performances the past two seasons.
Irvin had the finest season of his career in 1995 when he caught
111 passes for 1,603 yards and 11 touchdowns. He followed that up
with 64 catches for 962 yards and two touchdowns in 11 games in
1996 and 75 catches for 1,180 yards and nine touchdowns in 1997.
That Irvin wants to play is certainly embodied by his unyielding
intensity and unmatched work ethic that teammates say has energized
the locker room.
Gailey fully understands that any distractions could have
negatively impacted the implementation of his new offense and
potentially sabotaged his inaugural season. But Gailey said he is
not surprised by Irvin's positive influence; he expected nothing
different.
Irvin credits much of his enthusiasm to the new coaching staff
and Gailey's new offense, which will feature Irvin lining up in the
backfield and at slot receiver in addition to his regular outside
receiver position.
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, cautiously appreciative for what so
far has been an off-season free of incidence from any of his
players, agrees.
Jones says what can be said of Irvin can be said of the team on
and off the field. He believes the changed Cowboys will result in
regaining some past glory in 1998.
CHICAGO Watch them closely the rest of this week, because it
might be over before Saturday.
Chicago's march toward a third straight title, and a sixth of
this decade (is there any doubt it would be eight straight if not
for Michael Jordan's baseball flirtation?), took a dramatic step
forward Sunday night at the United Center when the Bulls dismantled
the Utah Jazz, 96-54, to take a 2-1 lead in the NBA Finals.
That's right, folks. 96-54. Utah set a record for Finals
futility, shattering the previous low score of 71 (last done by
Houston against the Celtics in 1981). It was the worst beating in
the history of the NBA Finals, surpassing Washington's 35-point
drubbing of the Sonics in 1978. Utah's point total was the lowest
in the history of the post-shot-clock NBA.
Perhaps the Jazz can rally like the Celtics did in 1984, winning
three of the last four after getting humiliated in Games 1 and 3.
But this doesn't feel like that. Working on nine days of rest,
the Jazz had to go into overtime to beat the weary Bulls in Game 1,
then lost Game 2 on their home court. Sunday night the series
shifted to the Windy City and there were stretches in the second
half when it looked like the Jazz were ready to roll over and quit.
It would be difficult to overstate the magnitute of the beating.
Chicago's vaunted defense completely smothered the Jazz. Chicago
led, 17-14 after one, 49-31 at halftime, and 72-45 at the end of
three. Imagine a team in the NBA Finals scoring only 45 points in
three quarters?
Malone came out of his shooting slump, connecting on eight of 11
attempts, but he rarely saw the ball in the second half and his
teammates shot 13 for 59 (22 percent) without him. Credit Jordan,
Scottie Pippen, and Ron Harper, the Bulls' Doberman Defense. Pippen
played free safety most of the night, destroying everything that
got in his path.
The worst patch for the Jazz came at the end of the third period
when Chicago's venerable veteran Harper (8 points, 10 rebounds)
grabbed a quick rebound and fired a no-look full-court pass to a
breaking Scott Burrell. The immortal Burrell slammed it home to
make the score 66-42. Utah came down and the frustrated Malone
immediately was flagged for elbowing Dennis Rodman in the face. It
was Malone's fourth foul, and the Jazz called time to remove him.
After the timeout, Jordan went into the low post and hit a
turnaround over Chris Morris. Then Rodman followed his own miss
with his only 2 points of the night and it was a hideous 70-42.
At the start of the fourth quarter, the Jazz had Shandon
Anderson, Howard Eisley, Antoine Carr, Morris, and the immortal
Adam Keefe on the floor. Not one starter. It was a message of
sorts. This one was over, and Sloan, a proud warrior, already was
thinking about the next game. Garbage time was particularly nasty
for the Jazz. Jordan's services were not needed.
The first period featured more bricks than one would find under
the ivy at Wrigley Field. The Bulls made six of 18, while the Jazz
struggled to hit seven of 22 shots.
Malone, after shooting 14 for 41 in the first two games of the
series, came out with something to prove and made his first five
shots, four of them jumpers. Unfortunately for the Jazz, no one
else in purple could do much of anything and Utah fell behind,
17-14, even though the Bulls shot only 33 percent. Utah was worse.
Take away Malone's 6 for 6, and the Jazz made only one of 16 shots
in the period.
It was a testament to Bulls basketball. Chicago missed 10 of its
first 12 shots, but still held serve. Luc Longley scored a
team-high 6 point in the first quarter, and Harper snagged six
rebounds. Malone had 12 of Utah's 14 points. John Stockton had the
other basket.
The first two games of this series provided no warning for
Sunday night's massacre. Now it's up to the once-favored Jazz to
see if they can respond with a victory in Chicago, or at least a
more noble defeat. Utah has too much experience, class, and dignity
to go out like this.
But the Padres did most of their damage in a six-run eighth
inning with their bats on their shoulders.
Danny Patterson relieved Eric Gunderson with one out and nobody
on in the eighth, after the Rangers had scored three runs in the
seventh to tie the score, 6-6. Patterson faced five batters and
walked four of them, forcing in two runs. The other batter he
faced, Wally Joyner, bucked the trend and actually used his bat to
hit a single.
The walk on the wild side left Patterson with a rather ugly
looking line: Five batters faced, no outs, one hit, four walks and
five earned runs, the final ones scoring when relievers Tim
Crabtree and Scott Bailes allowed the inherited runners to score.
Patterson was not the only reliever who couldn't get the job
done in the last two innings. Crabtree allowed a hit to Mark
Sweeney that allowed two of Patterson's runners to score, and
Bailes allowed two hits that got home Crabtree's runner. Steve
Finley had four hits, including three doubles, and drove in five
runs for the Padres.
Al Levine, recalled from Triple-A earlier in the day when second
baseman Mark McLemore went on the disabled list, allowed five runs
on five hits in the ninth.
Overall, the four relievers allowed 11 runs on nine hits and
five walks in the final two innings, all after Will Clark's
three-run homer in the seventh had brought the Rangers back from a
6-3 deficit.
It was an uncharacteristic performance. The relief corps entered
the game having earned six of the team's past 10 victories and had
a 2.72 earned-run average in the past 13 games. Coming into the
game, the Rangers had the lowest bullpen ERA in the league at 3.13.
It also was an uncharacteristic performance from Patterson, who
entered the game with a 2.70 ERA. The right-hander had walked five
batters in 20 innings, and never had walked more than three in a
game.
But against the Padres, he found the strike zone with only eight
of his 25 pitches.
Even though there are no physical problems as a result of an
off-season shoulder operation, Patterson said he doesn't feel as
well as he did last season, when he was 10-6 with a 3.42 ERA in 54
appearances.
It didn't look like it would come down to Patterson and the
bullpen when the Padres erased a 3-2 deficit with four runs in the
fifth. The big blow was a three-run homer by Greg Vaughn on a
belt-high, hanging slider by Rangers starter Bobby Witt.
The Rangers got back in it with Clark's three-run homer to
center off Dennis Reyes, who was pitching in relief of Padres
starter Mark Langston. But Dan Miceli then came in for Reyes, and
held the Texas batters in check.
 BOSTON In the good times and bad, lefthander Steve Avery
always insisted he was a better pitcher than his time with the Red
Sox indicated. Finally, it's starting to happen for him.
What he did in his fourth start of the year, a 5-0 victory over
the New York Mets Sunday night at Fenway Park, was something the
Red Sox have wanted to see for a year and a half. He had prime-time
stuff, using a revised motion. Twice he snuffed out New York
rallies in situations where in the past he has folded like an
accordian.
When Jimy Williams sent Avery out for a start last September, it
triggered an option year in the pitcher's contract. The move was
controversial, and the Sox had to hope he would overcome health
problems and turn into a hurler who could give them some quality
starts and innings. Sunday night, he gave them his best outing
since a 3-1 victory over Cleveland last July 21, a seven-inning
stint that helped Boston salvage the final game of a three-game
series.
When he went 7 2/3 innings against the Indians, Avery was an
over-the-top fastball pitcher. Sunday night, using a new release
point, he was more a crafty veteran. In the fourth inning, just
minutes after his teammates had just given him a 4-0 lead, Avery
put runners on first and third with none out. He escaped. In the
seventh, he put two runners on with one out, and again New York
failed to score. He left after throwing just 84 pitches.
Avery's changeup and curve are more effective when his fastball
is better. He threw 24 changeups, 18 for strikes. That's big for a
guy who decided to give the new motion a try only last Tuesday in
Toronto.
Avery retired the first nine batters he faced. Then, in the top
of the fourth, he gave up a 420-foot triple to Brian McRae and an
infield single to Edgardo Alfonzo, McRae holding. But Avery got
Bernard Gilkey to fly to short right, with both runners holding.
And as John Olerud struck out on a 3-2 pitch, Hatteberg not only
caught the foul tip but threw a bullet to second base, cutting down
Gilkey for a double play.
The Sox put it away in the third, sending nine batters to the
plate against Masato Yoshii, the veteran Japanese hurler. All four
runs scored after two were out.
Darren Lewis started it with a line single off the Wall. Lewis
stole second and scored on a single up the middle by Reggie
Jefferson. Nomar Garciaparra doubled into the left-field corner,
sending Jefferson to third. After a walk to Vaughn, Troy O'Leary
followed with a base hit to center, scoring Jefferson and
Garciaparra and sending Vaughn to third. Then John Valentin doubled
to right, scoring Vaughn.
There was Real Quiet, cruising strongly on a four-length lead in
Saturday's Belmont Stakes after delivering the same devastating
blow that knocked out his opponents in the Kentucky Derby and
Preakness Stakes. He was surely cruising toward a place in history.
Then, in a twinkling of an eye, Real Quiet was suddenly running
in slow motion when compared to the charging Victory Gallop. His
commanding lead shrinking to three lengths, two, one and finally a
random bobbing of heads.
He still could have won it, of course. A jump before the wire,
his head was down and Victory Gallop's was up, as the two horses
were in asynchronous strides. A jump after the wire, his head was
in front, too.
But at the only time and place that counted, Victory Gallop's
head was down at the precise instant the horses flashed across the
Belmont Park finish.
Before the race, more than a few handicappers picked against
Real Quiet simply because he didn't have the same uncommon talent
as Secretariat or Seattle Slew or Affirmed. Some instead chose
Victory Gallop, others took Raffie's Majesty or even in a huge
stretch of logic Parade Ground. But the underlying theory was the
same: something unlucky or unexpected would occur to bring about
Real Quiet's defeat. The racing gods would see to that.
Real Quiet became the only horse in the 130-year history of the
mile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes to blow a four-length lead in the
final furlong.
But for these racing gods, here is a warning: your power will be
sorely tested in upcoming years.
As the modern thoroughbred continues to become increasingly
fragile due to indiscriminate breeding practices, horses such as
Silver Charm and Real Quiet will pop up with regularity. They don't
break watches or cause jaws to drop. But the more expensive,
fashionably-bred colts will continue to be exiled to the farm with
condylar fractures, bone chips or broken sesamoids only to begin
a stud career and beget even more unsound horses while the Real
Quiets of the sport will succeed by virtue of their durability.
Soon enough, one or more of these horses will slip through the
filter and win a Triple Crown.
The right knee Ramos had torn up twice in less than a year was
still as stiff and cranky then as the Tin Woodsman's. US men's
soccer coach Steve Sampson had his World Cup candidates in camp and
the clock was ticking. Sampson had said he'd wait for Ramos until
the 11th hour, but ...
No promises. No promises that the 31-year-old Ramos would get a
spot on the 22-man roster. And now that he's here, living with his
fellow Yanks in an ivy-covered castle in the middle of Beaujolais
country, there's no guarantee that Ramos will start when the
Americans take on Germany in Paris a week from Monday.
Ramos's spot used to be in the middle of the intersection,
dribbling and distributing. But that was before he tore his ACL in
a Cup qualifier at Trinidad two Novembers ago, then did it again
last fall.
Now Claudio Reyna, who went to Ramos's old high school (St.
Benedict's Prep in Newark), has taken over at playmaker and Sampson
isn't sure he can start two men who aren't used to sharing one
ball.
It's not as if there aren't enough midfield jobs to go around.
There are six of them in Sampson's 3-6-1 formation, and if Ramos
can't be the playmaker, he'll find something else to be. Reyna
won't be tripping over Ramos's feet or his ego.
Ramos has been wearing a US jersey since he played in the 1988
Olympics in Seoul. He's one of three players left from the 1990 Cup
team and second only to Cobi Jones among capped midfielders. He
knows how to adjust to whatever circumstance throws at him.
The only thing Ramos couldn't adjust to was getting hurt. He was
at the top of his game two years ago when he shredded his knee the
first time. Coincidence or not, the Americans then went 2-2-4 in
Cup qualifiers without him after being 3-0-0 with him.
When Ramos came back, he scored the team's best goal of the year
to beat Costa Rica, 1-0. Six weeks later, he ruined the knee again
and doctors told him he might not make it back for the Cup.
Ramos wishes he had a couple more months to get ready. He wishes
he had the luxury of making a few mistakes in friendly matches. He
wishes he hadn't been moved back to GO with so little time to prove
himself again.
Zubov was released from custody Sunday and police issued a brief
statement. When asked if Zubov had been arraigned, a police
dispatcher said the department could not comment further than what
was contained in the statement.
The statement said officers were called to the 1000 block of
Gibbs Crossing at 3:05 a.m. Sunday in reference to a 911 hangup.
Zubov, 27, completed his second season with the Stars his
sixth NHL season Friday when the Stars lost in Detroit,
eliminating them from the playoffs in the Western Conference
finals.
A member of the 1994 Stanley Cup champion New York Rangers,
Zubov is among the Stars' top performers and was tied for second in
the NHL this season in points by a defenseman with 57. He was the
Stars' second-leading scorer behind Mike Modano in the playoffs
with nine points in 16 games.
A native of Moscow, Zubov came to the Stars in a 1996 trade with
Pittsburgh. He is under contract for two more seasons.
ELMONT, N.Y. It was difficult to watch a Triple Crown triumph
slip away in the last few yards of a 1 1/2-mile race. Racing fans,
80,162 strong, came out to Belmont Park to see history made
Saturday, and they were denied that experience at the wire.
However, it could have been worse. Instead of losing his Triple
Crown bid on the track, Real Quiet could have lost it in the
stewards' stand, and that would have been truly ugly.
Real Quiet, who had won the Kentucky Derby and Preakness and was
attempting to become the 12th Triple Crown winner in the Belmont
Stakes, zipped past the eighth pole with a 4-length lead. But it
was not meant to be as Victory Gallop, second in the Derby and
Preakness, closed strongly on him, survived two bumps, the second
of which was more than sufficient to cause a disqualification, and
prevailed by a nose.
Had the photo gone the other way, the stewards said they would
have had to take Real Quiet, the 4-5 favorite, down, depriving him
of the sport's greatest honor and depriving his connections of the
$5 million Triple Crown bonus. Had the three stewards acted,
politics would have intruded on the scene and conspiracy theorists
would have abounded. It was unfortunate for those who appreciate
the sweep of history that Real Quiet was defeated, but he is not
the greatest horse ever to stick his head through a bridle, and it
was better that he lost to Victory Gallop's charge than to the
stewards' votes.
Walden, who is an excellent Kentucky horseman, did an
outstanding job of getting Victory Gallop from the Preakness to the
Belmont in top shape. After the Preakness, Victory Gallop developed
a skin rash, caused by ringworm, and lost weight. But he was
dead-fit for the Belmont.
Baffert trains Silver Charm, who lost the Belmont to Touch Gold
nearing the wire last year, which also cost Baffert the Triple
Crown and his share of the $5 million bonus.
Kent Desormeaux, who rode Real Quiet and was outfinished by Gary
Stevens on Victory Gallop, criticized himself for moving too soon
entering the far turn. Frankly, he also was a little wider than he
needed to be, but Baffert refused to rip Desormeaux's ride.
Next for Victory Gallop most likely will be the $1 million
Haskell Invitational, going 1 1/8 miles at Monmouth Aug. 9. Among
his opponents there could be Indian Charlie, another top 3-year-old
trained by Baffert, and Coronado's Quest, the talented colt trained
by Shug McGaughey who won the Riva Ridge Stakes on the Belmont
undercard. Real Quiet might go to the $750,000 Travers Stakes, at a
mile and one-quarter at Saratoga Aug. 29.
Real Quiet became the 14th horse to lose the Triple Crown in the
Belmont and the sixth since the last successful bid by Affirmed in
1978. Since Affirmed beat Alydar in a classic stretch battle,
Spectacular Bid (1979), Pleasant Colony (1981), Alysheba (1987),
Sunday Silence (1989), Silver Charm (1997), and Real Quiet have
failed.
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. Willie Clay is grateful that only one of the
major defections from the Patriots this offseason came on defense,
cornerback Jimmy Hitchcock, who was dealt to the Minnesota Vikings
for a third-round draft pick.
For if more had, Clay knows the defense would have felt the
impact, much like the offense knows it will now.
Clay, who Sunday took part in the final day of mandatory
minicamp before more than 22,000 season ticket-holders at Foxboro
Stadium, said he also will miss Hitchcock, a neighbor in the locker
room and on the field.
Because first-round draft pick Tebucky Jones was injured early
in Friday's session (pulled left hamstring), Clay didn't have a
chance to form an early opinion as to whether Jones can handle the
job.
Canty, who had been buried on the left side behind Ty Law, had a
chance to play with the first defense at right corner during
minicamp and played well. He's trying to change the opinions of
those who believe the Patriots made a mistake by making him their
first-round pick last year.
The feeling after the camp is that the defense is ahead of the
offense, something that may be heard often during training camp in
Smithfield, R.I.
The focus of minicamp was mainly on the offense, particularly
rookie running back Robert Edwards. Eyes also were following Drew
Bledsoe, as always, wide receiver Terry Glenn, and the offensive
line, which must come to make holes for the new halfback.
For the first time in three years, the Patriots are running the
same defense for the second straight year. The constant changing of
schemes had taken its toll on some players. Now, rather than having
to learn a new style, they can just concentrate on improving.
 Billerica, Mass., now may be in Tom Glavine's rear-view
mirror, but it's never out of sight. And certainly not out of his
thoughts.
Any link to home makes Glavine a little sentimental, which is
why pitching Monday night's opener of the Red Sox-Braves series at
Turner Field still is special for the former National League Cy
Young winner and Most Valuable Player of the 1995 World Series.
Glavine could have traded in his Braves jersey a couple of years
ago when he became a free agent, but he decided not to leave a good
situation. He was there for the bad years in the late 1980s, so why
not stick around for the good times?
Since 1991, the Braves have been perennial contenders, and
Glavine has been one constant. He, along with manager Bobby Cox,
pitching coach Leo Mazzone, and to a degree John Smoltz, are the
last links to the bad Braves.
The high point of Glavine's career came in '95 when the Braves
won it all and Glavine won Game 6 of the World Series with a
sterling 1-0 masterpiece over the Cleveland Indians.
Since then the Braves have been good in the playoffs, but not
good enough, beaten in the NLCS by the expansion and wild-card
Florida Marlins last season.
The Braves are dominating the regular season again. Even with an
8-2 rec-ord and a 2.10 ERA, Glavine can't boast that he's the
team's best pitcher. There's Greg Maddux, 9-2, with a 1.69 ERA;
lefthander Denny Neagle, 7-3 with a 3.04 ERA; young Kevin Millwood,
8-2 with a 4.07 ERA; and, waiting in the wings, the injured Smoltz.
Filling in for Smoltz has been veteran Dennis Martinez, who has a
2-2 record and a 3.86 ERA.
Glavine says his own pitching hasn't changed a bit. He says in
any given year one pitch is working better than another. This year
he's rediscovered his breaking pitch to go with one of the best
changeups in the game and a fastball that seems a yard quicker when
he's getting his offspeed stuff over.
Glavine, like many in baseball, is baffled by the struggles of
Avery. At one time Avery and Glavine were inseperable, part of
baseball's most incredible staff. Glavine's great stuff and Avery's
dominating heat complemented each other well.
Glavine is thrilled that Williams has become a successful
manager. Williams was the third base coach and infield instructor
under Cox, and he also was the coach who worked with the pitchers
on their hitting.
 It was one of the longest, most exhausting three-game trips
the Giants had ever taken. It also turned out to be one of the
sweetest.
The Giants the first-place San Francisco Giants had every
reason to fold it up Sunday afternoon. The flight out on Thursday
was bogged down with bad weather and airport delays. On Saturday,
they played a bullpen-draining 14-inning affair that ended after
midnight. And Sunday, they were down three runs to the Cardinals in
the seventh inning. It would have been perfectly acceptable to give
in and go home.
But that's not Dusty Baker's Giants. Sparked by a double by
pitcher Mark Gardner and a tie-breaking home run Jeff Kent, the
Giants turned this one around with a four-run seventh inning and
held on with some great pitching by closer Robb Nen for a 6-5 win
at Busch Stadium.
With the victory, the Giants completed their first three-game
sweep here in 14 years and extended their winning streak to a
season-best nine games.
It was the 20th comeback victory of the season for the Giants,
who were down 4-0 after the first inning when the Cardinals knocked
around starter Gardner. It's getting to be a trend for Gardner to
get whacked early he's given up two five-run first innings this
year to go along with Sunday's four-run start.
Gardner also knew he wouldn't be pulled anytime soon either. The
Giants' bullpen turned in 91/3 innings the night before and most of
the 'pen was unavailable.
Gardner did his job from there on, allowing just a run-scoring
double in the fifth inning by McGwire.
Given therapy between innings to get loose, Gardner's kinks
didn't seem to bother him at the plate. He lined a single in the
third inning, and in the sixth he had the key hit: When showing
bunt with a runner on first, he pulled the bat back and drilled a
double into the left-field corner off starter Kent Mercker.
With runners on second and third, Hamilton followed with a
two-run double to right that cut the Cardinals' lead to 5-4. It was
the second game in a row Hamilton has come up big. Saturday night,
Hamilton's two-run triple in the ninth inning sent the game into
extra innings.
Mercker, whose only blemishes before the sixth were a solo home
run by Brian Johnson and an RBI double by Kent, was losing it in
the seventh, but because the Cardinals' bullpen was in the same
terrible shape as the Giants', St. Louis manager Tony La Russa
stayed with his starter.
Mercker's inning only got worse when his wild pitch moved
Hamilton to third and Barry Bonds drove home the game-tying run
with deep sacrifice fly to center. Kent followed with the
tie-breaking home run into the right-center field stands. It was
his seventh homer of the season.
Everyone knew this would be a one-run game, or if not, an
extra-inning game all six games here between the Giants and Cards
have been exactly that. After the Cardinals put runners on second
and third and no outs against Nen, it looked like the Cardinals,
losers of eight out of nine, would steal a win.
But Nen struck out Ray Lankford and intentionally walked McGwire
to load the bases. After a force out by Brian Jordan, Nen ended it
by getting John Mabry to bounce into a force play.
The site, at www.schwab.com/chinese, is Schwab's latest effort
in a longtime strategy to build its Asian American clientele by
providing bilingual brokers, materials and telephone services.
Schwab also has opened five branches nationwide, including two
in the Bay Area, to cater to Asian Americans by providing bilingual
brokers and materials.
Schwab's Asian-language branches are located in San Francisco's
Chinatown, Milpitas, the Los Angeles suburbs of Rowland Heights and
San Gabriel, and Flushing, N.Y. There are plans to open new
branches in Daly City and Seattle later this year.
Other financial companies are trying to catch up with Schwab.
Merrill Lynch has Asian-language offices in New York and the Los
Angeles area. PaineWebber Inc. also has an office in Flushing that
focuses on Asian Americans.
Fidelity Investments has launched a pilot program to try and
target Asian American investors by providing bilingual brokers over
the telephone and at some investor centers across the western
United States, including San Francisco.
Chinese-speaking customers can get quotes, check their account
balances and make trades on Schwab's new Web site, which also has
several links to the company's English-language site.
The site is being promoted by Schwab's Asian investment centers,
and by ads in Chinese media. But the most effective marketing tool
will be satisfied customers, Louie said.
Many Asian American investors already do business in English,
but Schwab wanted to provide as many options possible to make
investing less stressful, Louie said.
The Florida-based firm will introduce a Spanish-language version
of its Web site, which provides news and free rate information
about mortgages, home equity loans, auto loans, credit cards and
savings and checking accounts.
As the only Web site that will provide extensive personal
finance information in Spanish, Bank Rate Monitor in Espanol hopes
to tap into the growing market of Spanish-speakers in the United
States as well as consumers in Latin America.
 Bank Rate Monitor in Espanol will be accessible only through
the company's main Web site at www.bankrate.com, probably by this
week. It will eventually have its own Internet address at
www.bankrate.com/esp.
Plasencia said the odds for success are good. The U.S. Hispanic
market is the fifth-largest Spanish-speaking market in the world,
with $273 billion in annual purchasing power, according to Strategy
Research Corp. in Coral Gables, Fla.
A recent study by Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., also
shows that middle- and lower-income Latinos are more likely than
whites to buy PCs.
For example, almost 32 percent of Hispanics with annual
household income under $35,000, 58 percent of Hispanics with annual
household income between $35,000 and $49,000, and 77 percent of
Hispanics with annual household income of $50,000 or more owned
computers, the study found.
By comparison, the study noted that 25.5 percent of whites with
annual household income under $35,000, 47.5 percent of whites with
annual household income between $35,000 and $49,000, and 74.6
percent of whites with annual household income of $50,000 or more
owned computers.
In addition, computers and the Internet have opened the door to
Latin American consumers, many of whom own homes or businesses in
the United States, or want to keep some of their money in U.S.
banks for security reasons, said Plasencia.
 The Spanish-language site will provide a direct translation of
about two-thirds of the 1,600 pages of information on Bank Rate
Monitor's main site, said Plasencia.
Bank Rate Monitor intends to launch a broader Web site in
November that Plasencia hopes will become the America Online for
the Spanish-language market.
Although the as-yet-unnamed site will be built around financial
information, it will expand to include online brokerage, travel and
banking services as well as chat rooms and message boards, he said.
Whether it's credit cards, insurance products or mutual funds,
financial companies like Banco Popular are starting to take aim at
the nation's growing ethnic markets.
On one hand, ethnic consumers are getting more opportunities
than ever to join the financial mainstream. On the other hand,
objective noncommercial information about products and services is
still hard to find in many of these communities.
The preapproved offer from Banco Popular, for example, included
a $750 credit line, a $30 annual fee, and a 21.9 percent interest
rate.
Informed consumers would know that if they had shopped around,
they could have qualified for a no-fee credit card with a lower
interest rate.
There's a big untapped market for financial goods and services
in ethnic markets, according to Claritas Inc., an Arlington,
Va.-based market research firm.
Of the almost 267 million people in the United States, 12.7
percent are African American, 10.7 percent are Hispanic and 5.6
percent are Asian American (Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese,
and Asian and Pacific Islander), Claritas said.
Just 5.41 percent of Hispanics, 5.01 percent of African
Americans and 14.38 percent of Asian Americans owned mutual funds
in 1997, Claritas said.
And 47.22 percent of Hispanics, 61.42 percent of African
Americans and 52.70 percent of Asian Americans had life insurance
in 1996, the most recent figures available, Claritas said.
Banco Popular certainly isn't alone in targeting ethnic
consumers. Freedom Card Inc., based in Marina Del Rey (Los Angeles
County), plans a statewide rollout next month of the Freedom Card,
a credit card targeting African Americans who haven't established
credit histories.
 A few weeks ago, Charles Schwab Co. in San Francisco became
the first U.S. brokerage to create an Internet trading site in a
foreign language Chinese at www.schwab.com/chinese.
In the past, ethnic groups often were ignored by financial goods
and services companies because marketers focused on the general
market, said Kris Reed, vice president of Claritas' financial
services group.
Little information also was available about the purchasing
behavior of immigrants or low-income consumers, which often comes
from credit reports, she said.
A few companies, like Banco Popular and Freedom Inc., are
targeting immigrant and low-income consumers at the other end of
the spectrum who haven't yet established credit histories.
There can be a downside to these efforts, however. Banco Popular
may be trying to help Latinos establish credit, but it's also
offering discounts on money transfers from Western Union and
prescriptions from Kmart.
By offering such discounts, Banco Popular is tacitly sending a
message to Latino consumers that it's OK to pay for prescriptions
out-of-pocket instead of getting health insurance.
It's also encouraging the continued use of agencies like Western
Union, which provide expensive check cashing services and money
transfers.
The secured Freedom Card carries an interest rate of 12.5
percent to 18.5 percent. The unsecured Freedom Card has a 90-day
introductory interest rate of zero, which rises to between 15.5
percent and 18.5 percent. Both charge a $35 annual fee.
Cecilia Liu, director of Asian markets for John Hancock, said
it's important for companies to speak directly to ethnic markets by
providing materials in their native language and being culturally
sensitive to their needs.
The only way consumers can protect themselves is to become
educated about financial goods and services and make the effort to
shop around for products before they make a purchase, said Li of
Consumer Action.
Mainstream publications such as Consumer Reports or Money
magazine may not be popular in ethnic communities, but there are
some places where consumers can get objective noncommercial
information in their native languages.
Consumer Action offers a variety of free brochures about credit,
insurance, investing and other consumer issues in English, Spanish,
Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese.
Bank Rate Monitor later this week will introduce a
Spanish-language version of its Web site at www.bankrate.com, which
will provide news and free rate information about mortgages, home
equity loans, auto loans, credit cards, and savings and checking
accounts.
 Whether shopping for a new credit card or an auto loan,
consumers should do their homework before spending their money. And
if English is their second language, they should demand disclosures
in their native language or ask someone they trust to translate the
materials.
BOSTON John Wasdin said he had been looking forward to making
the trip to Atlanta for quite some time. After all, his family had
planned a reunion around the Red Sox' three-game set vs. the Braves
beginning Monday night. From Tallahassee to Jacksonville, Wasdins
all over Florida were ready to make the trek north to converge upon
Ted Turner Field to watch their favorite Boston pitcher.
Plane reservations had been confirmed. Hotel rooms booked. And,
yes, there were even plans for a family trip to Six Flags. But then
something came up last Wednesday night that caused a major glitch
in Wasdin's plans for a happy family reunion.
Wasdin smiled and laughed. He could afford to do so, especially
since he got his ticket to ride to Atlanta when the Red Sox
recalled him some 24 hours after sending him down to the minors.
The roster spot became available when Dennis Eckersley was placed
on the 15-day disabled list.
Wasdin said he was scheduled to start for Pawtucket Sunday. Upon
his arrival in Pawtucket, he telephoned pitching coach Joe Kerrigan
to get his throwing assignment, but was told to hold off and report
back to Fenway Park Thursday, because something might be up with
Eck's arm.
While it also helped lower Wasdin's ERA to 5.35, it did little
to improve his hits-to-innings-pitched ratio, which is 39 to 33
2/3.
CHICAGO The highlights of Sunday night's game will be
condensed into a few choice plays, like Michael Jordan's one-armed
magic against Greg Ostertag or the full-court pass by Dennis
Rodman, and rightly so. NBA greatness is always defined by scoring.
With a few choice words Magic's hook, West's bomb, or merely
Garfield Heard you're right back in the moment.
But there's a cult level to NBA lore, stories barely remembered
and seldom told. They are the unopened volumes, telling the real
story, and they center entirely around defense.
In that ridiculous 42-point rout of Utah, the Chicago Bulls set
a team-wide offensive standard they won't be able to match. Not in
this series, maybe not ever if Jordan sails into the sunset. Nobody
could miss, not even Jud Buechler. Bill Wennington was a heck of an
option. Even Dickey Simpkins put one down. It was bawdy, comical
and completely unrealistic.
But what's happening inside the Jazz players' heads? How does it
feel knowing that they can't execute their offense, that they can't
set the tough screens, that a 6-for-6 start by Karl Malone means
absolutely nothing?
Sloan glanced at a copy of the final boxscore, a surrealistic
set of numbers showing seven turnovers by Malone, 30 percent
shooting by the Jazz, a combined two points by John Stockton and
Howard Eisley, and the 96-54 final.
No team in the history of the 24-second shot clock had scored
fewer points. Not just in the Finals or the playoffs, but in any game. The plodding beasts of the mid-50s did better than this. It
was also the most one-sided game ever witnessed in the Finals.
Center Greg Foster was seething. Where he comes from, the hard
streets of Oakland high school ball, you don't lose a game this way
without losing some pride, as well.
Stockton looked positively helpless, shooting 1-for-4 and never
getting to the free-throw line. Malone broke from the gate like a
cooped-up thoroughbred, but he was a different man after Rodman
entered the game. At the time, he was on a 5-for-5 roll. For the
rest of the first half nearly 15 minutes' worth Malone took
only two shots.
And that's the hidden legacy of the Bulls. Occasionally through
time, a defensive play will stand out, like the great Boston Garden
steals by John Havlicek and Larry Bird. More often, those moments
disappear. People remember Magic and Doctor J, and they forget
about Michael Cooper, K.C. Jones, Walt Frazier, Satch Sanders. They
forget how the Warriors shut down Elvin Hayes in '75 or why Bill
Russell kept beating Chamberlain and West.
 A: It's always been daunting trying to find work in one place
when you're living in another place. But today cross-country or
even international job hunters have a lot more options because of
the Internet.
There are Web sites geared to professionals in almost every
industry, often with job listings and discussion groups. The
discussion groups are a great way to network with colleagues and
nose around for job openings in other cities.
In your case, your first stop on the Web should be the site run
by the Bay Area Video Coalition. BAVC's Web site at www.bavc.org
lists scores of jobs in the video and new media fields. BAVC also
offers more than 400 classes in video and new media, along with
screenings and other useful networking events. For membership
information, call (415) 861-3282.
Another site you should check out is www.listfoundation.org,
which has a number of new-media job listings. Other local groups
with job listings for the video and film industry are the Film Arts
Foundation at (415) 552-8760 and Media Alliance at (415) 546-6334.
To land an offer, you'll probably have to follow up with some
old-fashioned in-person networking.
Schedule a vacation trip out here to coincide with some industry
event like a video festival. Then use your Internet contacts or
other personal connections like your college alumni network to
line up informational interviews.
New media and video really are booming in the Bay Area, with
more independent film and video producers per capita than New York
or Los Angeles, according to BAVC.
So do your homework. You're likely to end up with a great San
Francisco job ... and a whole new set of problems.
 Q: My wife's company was recently acquired by another firm.
The new owners have withheld one week's salary from each employee,
and say they intend to hold it until the employee someday leaves
the firm. Is this legal?
 A: It's completely normal for a landlord to demand an extra
month's rent from tenants as a security deposit. But for a company
to withhold a week of employees' pay as some kind of security
deposit? That's extremely unusual, and probably illegal.
State and federal labor codes require firms to pay their workers
in a regular and timely fashion at least twice a month for most
workers, or once a month for salaried or professional workers.
If your firm is socking away your week's pay in some kind of
escrow account, Ross said, it's violating the law. The company
could face misdemeanor charges, or penalties of up to $100 per
employee plus 25 percent of the amount that is being unlawfully
withheld. The place to file a complaint is the office of the
California Labor Commissioner, at (415) 557-7878.
Of course, it's possible that you misunderstood the policy. Is
the company really withholding your pay? Or did it just change the
schedule for issuing paychecks?
 Q: I am a self-employed editor. One of my clients is a
publisher back east who considers me an employee and withholds
taxes from my paychecks. Because this client considers me an
employee, my tax accountant says I cannot deduct my expenses for
jobs done for this client. But the client doesn't provide me with
me any supplies or materials. Do I have any choice about their
treating me as an employee?
 A: There are a growing number of cases these days where
companies misclassify employees as independent contractors, in an
effort to avoid paying benefits or to pare down their full-time
workforce.
You've got the opposite situation you're an independent
contractor who is being misclassified as an employee.
Before asking to be reclassified, do some math and make sure it
would pay off to be reclassified. As an employee, you and your
employer each pay 7.65 percent of your wages into Social Security
and Medicare; as a contractor, you'd have to pay the full 15.3
percent yourself.
Also, there may be a way for you to deduct your expenses even
as an employee. Oakland accountant David Roberts suggests you take
a look at IRS Form 2106. That would allow you to tally up and
deduct unreimbursed business expenses but only if you file a tax
return with itemized deductions, and only if your unreimbursed
expenses total more than 2 percent of your income.
Send your work and career questions to Ilana DeBare, Workways,
San Francisco Chronicle, 901 Mission St., San Francisco 94103. Or
send e-mail to workways sfgate.com. Or call (415) 764-2815. We
can't respond to each query in person, but we will answer as many
in print as we can.
BOSTON All he's ever wanted to do in Boston, really, is
contribute in any way possible. As a starter. A reliever out of
the bullpen. And, on those rare occasions, even as a pinch runner.
But Sunday night before 30,630 at Fenway Park, Avery took
another step in cementing his spot in Boston's starting rotation which always had been his intended role by throwing seven innings
of shutout ball, allowing just three hits and one walk while
ringing up four strikeouts, to lead the Red Sox to a 5-0 victory
over the New York Mets.
Avery's last start was last Tuesday in Toronto. He went five
innings and allowed three runs and three hits in a 5-3 victory,
only his second of the season and first since a 5-0 shutout over
Kansas City May 16. The reason he was nervous was that he was
experimenting with some new mechanics on the mound, a new release
point suggested by pitching coach Joe Kerrigan.
That is, with the exception of a lapse in the fourth, which
prompted a visit from Kerrigan. So why did it take so long to
detect Avery's delivery problem, and to correct it?
CHICAGO With 3:32 left in the first quarter of Game 3 of the
NBA Finals Sunday night, Karl Malone tossed in a pretty turnaround
fall-away jumper over Dennis Rodman to give the Jazz a 14-9 lead
over the Bulls, and himself a 6-for-6 start from the field.
At that point, the Jazz should have walked off the United Center
floor and caught a flight home. It would have saved them the abject
humiliation that was to follow over the next 44-plus minutes.
Considering what did transpire, the state of Utah would be well
within its rights to deny the Jazz re-entry and send them back to
their original home of New Orleans.
The Bulls took the Jazz apart at the seams, starting with a run
of 12 straight points after Malone's jumper and ending only with
the merciful final buzzer completing a 96-54 massacre. In the
process, the five-time champs slammed the Jazz into several
undesirable areas of the record book.
Not only did the Jazz lose by the largest margin ever in a
Finals game, and not only did they set single-game scoring lows in
the Finals and the playoffs overall they scored fewer points than
any team in any game since the shot clock was adopted in 1954-55.
The Indiana Pacers, who played without leading scorers Reggie
Miller and Rik Smits that day, managed just 55 against the Spurs in
a regular-season game back on March 29. This Jazz team had its full
complement of players, the same ones that had the league's best
regular-season record.
It was such a thorough dismantling, Michael Jordan was almost an
afterthought. His role in the defensive lockdown was crucial, with
his smothering of Jeff Hornacek and his trapping pressure; at the
other end he scored 24 points, including another entry into the
permanent highlight reel, a second-quarter layup in which he
switched the ball from right hand to left in midair.
Malone hardly did: after briefly redeeming himself from his
14-of-41 performance in the first two games, he managed to take
only five shots and hit two after his 6-for-6 start. He finished
with a meek 22 points, three rebounds and seven turnovers, three of
which were offensive fouls.
Even during Malone's big start, the Bulls were putting down the
foundation for arguably the greatest defensive game ever. Their
traps from all over the court prevented John Stockton from even
getting the ball upcourt efficiently, as well as keeping the Jazz
from either picking or rolling. Ron Harper made a complete nuisance
of himself to Stockton and added eight points, 10 rebounds and
seven assists in his best overall showing of the series. The Jazz
committed 26 turnovers, tying a franchise playoff record; Stockton
had five by himself.
The upshot of all this was a series of Jazz droughts that began
after Malone's late first-quarter jumper. Nearly six minutes went
by before they scored again. Starters Hornacek and Bryon Russell
went scoreless until the final five minutes of the half. The Bulls
finished the half with a 12-2 run in just 2:27. The Jazz trailed
49-31 at halftime, with their total tying for the second fewest
points in a half.
And that was their (begin ital) good (end ital) half: in the
second half they set a new mark with just 23 points. Their
fourth-quarter total of nine was also a record, as was their 21
total field goals and the Bulls' 42-point margin of victory.
All this as Hincapie a winner turned loser in this race a year
ago was shooting over the finish line first in Sunday's First
Union US Professional Racing Organization Championship, winning in
6 hours 6 minutes 35 seconds.
Last year Hincapie hopped on the podium when he thought he was
the first American finisher, thus gaining the title of US
professional national champion. But he had it taken away minutes
later when judges disqualified him for illegally using a team car
to draft with in the race.
First, it was $30,000 for winning the race, which was 156 miles
long. Then it was a starred-and-striped jersey for being the first
American to win, and becoming the year's US pro national champion.
Finally, there was a silver cup and a check for $10,000 for winning
the Solidarity Cup, a series of races completed Sunday that took
place over the past two months in Poland and America.
The race that covered 10 circuits around downtown Philadelphia
traveled along the Schuylkill River, up the steep road called the
Manayunk Wall, and back down to make a loop in front of the fans at
the start-finish line. And the fast, crescendoing synthesizer music
and the announcer's frantic voice were not in the least too intense
for the drama that unfolded during the last half-hour.
As the riders made their way on the last three 3-mile circuits
of the race, the red, white, and blue Postal Service jerseys
dominated the lead pack of 30. The Polish, Spanish, and Italian
riders were trying to pedal up to the front and dominate, but
Hincapie said it was two Americans Frank McCormack, of Leicester,
Mass., and McCormack's brother Mark, of North Easton, Mass. who
were really causing him trouble.
So with just 200 meters to go, as riders jostled for position
and rode far faster than the 25.43 m.p.h. they had been averaging,
Hincapie made for the line. That, he said, is when his mind zoned
out.
ALAMEDA, Calif. The Raiders completed their final minicamp
Sunday, Mo Collins manned the left-tackle position. It isn't a
stretch to suggest Collins even as a rookie could become the
caretaker of quarterback Jeff George's blind side.
Pat Harlow, the returning starter at left tackle, missed all
three of the team's offseason minicamps. The Raiders are treating
Harlow carefully as he recovers from back surgery.
Coach Jon Gruden is optimistic that Harlow will be fine. If not and back pain can linger, as Harlow knows the all-important job
falls to Collins, the 23rd overall choice in the draft.
Collins played at Florida, so he knows something about
protecting the passer. He spent most of his college days at right
tackle; changing sides requires some adjustments in technique.
SEARCH: The Raiders are still in the market for a backup
quarterback. They were outbid for Dave Brown (who signed with
Arizona), passed on Jim Everett (health concerns) and are not
especially interested in re-signing David Klingler.
Gruden said the team will continue its search for the next few
weeks. Former Baltimore starter Vinny Testaverde is a free agent,
but he probably wants a chance to start and more money than the
Raiders are willing to pay.
They could head to training camp with Donald Hollas as the No. 2
quarterback. Hollas, who was No. 3 on the depth chart last season,
has collected plenty of snaps during offseason workouts.
Defensive coordinator Willie Shaw is installing a new scheme,
predicated on putting pressure on the quarterback. Something needs
to change, because the Raiders ranked 30th (last) in the league in
total defense last season.
 el,3 f,25,10 MISCELLANY: fn,cor,9,10,8.5 Defensive back
James Trapp left Sunday's practice with a biceps injury of unknown
severity. ... Safety Patrick Bates missed the practice because of a
sore wrist, suffered Friday. X-rays were negative. ... The Raiders
are scheduled to begin training camp July 21 in Napa. Their first
exhibition game is August 8 at Dallas.
PARIS It was a good day for a pesadilla a nightmare where he
comes from and that's exactly what Alex Corretja endured for 2
hours and 18 minutes Sunday in full view of 16,000 tennis patrons
at Stade Roland Garros, plus millions of freeloaders at teleside
across the globe.
Worse, Corretja sees across the net a huge long-haired guy in
baggy clothes, resembling an old-time burlesque comedian, but
there's nothing funny about the way he smacks balls too hard and
fast to handle. He looks like Corretja's long-time amigo, Charlie Carlos Moya but would Charlie treat him this way?
It's bad, but not a dream after all. Unless you consider it from
Charlie Moya's standpoint a dream come true, winning the French
Open, 6-3, 7-5, 6-3, and rising to No. 5 in the world from No. 12.
Better still, retaining No. 1 in Barcelona, the capital of the
game, still ahead of Corretja, who ascended to world No. 9 from No.
14.
The reign of Spain (a.k.a. Barcelona) stayed mainly on this dirt
plain in the Bois de Boulogne as 21-year-old Moya, a monster out of
a nightmare if there ever was one here, followed up on Arantxa
Sanchez Vicario's 7-6 (7-5), 0-6, 6-2 title victory over Monica
Seles Saturday.
Same scenario four years ago to the accompaniment of scarlet and
gold Spanish and Catalan flags ruffling and snapping happily. Only
then Sergi Bruguera was Arantxa's dirt-dancing partner. But Moya,
with his bludgeoning forehand and serve, startling speed, and
surprising volleying touch has more possibilities than Bruguera.
The Boys from Barcelona arrived in Paris a dozen strong of 19
Spaniards entered in the 128-man chase, and it came down to the
6-foot-3-inch kid from Avenida Foix to follow in the sneaker steps
of his Davis Cup captain, Manolo Santana, the champ of 1961 and
1964, Andres Gimeno, 1972, and Bruguera.
Corretja, losing six of his 15 service games, including the
opener, was in trouble from the moment Moya whacked a forehand to
win the first point of the day. He couldn't penetrate, and his
rolling topspin was no problem for the tall Moya.
Moya shuffled around his backhand quickly to brutalize second
serves with forehands, whammed a service winner to duck an early
break point and reach 4-2, and patiently waited for openings as
Corretja struggled fiercely to escape break points and set points
deep in the second set. But there was no way for him to hold off
Moya for long.
Corretja, 24, the guy who turned Sampras's stomach inside out
and held a match point in that dramatic US Open quarterfinal of
1996, couldn't produce similar form Sunday. He had made his mark on
the French a week before by outlasting Gumy in 5 hours 31 minutes,
the longest major tournament match, and his ordeal at Moya's hands
may have seemed as long though not as draining.
During an afternoon of rare good sporting feeling each man
contradicted judgments of line officials and awarded points to his
friend.
Then the audience won as the great soccer player, Pele, who led
Brazil to World Cups in 1958-62-70, appeared on the podium to help
present the prize, the sterling Coupe de Mousquetaires. Pele hugged
Moya and Corretja and, as soccer balls materialized, ping-ponged
headers with both men before the Spaniards booted the balls into
the crowd. Along with Pele was 82-year-old Don Budge, who won the
title 60 years ago, the second leg of the original Grand Slam.
Sampras, Andre Agassi, and Michael Chang may have evaporated fast,
but Budge gave the final an American presence.
OAKLAND, Calif. Add the A's to the long list of people in
baseball who just don't like the Arizona Diamondbacks.
Deep into a 12-4 Diamondbacks rout Sunday that lost its suspense
early, Arizona manager Buck Showalter instructed reliever Russ
Springer to hit an A's hitter in retaliation for the A's hitting
Yamil Benitez.
That might not have incensed the A's on its own. No, what had
them so irate was A) the choice of rookie Ben Grieve (a.k.a. The
Franchise) as the target for the message pitch; and B) plunking him
in the ninth inning.
Showalter did not actually confirm that he ordered Springer to
throw at Grieve, grazing him on his side. But he left no room for
doubt.
Mike Fetters, the A's fourth reliever of the day, might indeed
have been throwing at Benitez. He might even have been mad that
David Dellucci had legged out a double earlier in the eighth after
the score was already 12-4. But Fetters made a strong argument that
he did not plunk Benitez.
The way the A's saw it, that high-and-tight pitch to Kevin
Mitchell in the bottom of the eighth should have been enough of an
answer to any perceived offense Fetters committed. Mitchell got out
of the way but dropped his bat and sprawled to the ground. Mitchell
didn't think Amaury Telemaco's inside offering was aimed at him,
but he also didn't think much of the Diamondbacks going after
Grieve.
The chest-thumping and war of words might serve to fire up an
A's team that looked in danger of going flat. The loss brought
their only three-game home winning streak of the season to a
screeching halt. They headed to Los Angeles for a three-game series
with the Dodgers that threatens to be punishment enough to kill any
optimism generated by the team's 3-2 homestand, just the second
winning homestand of the year.
The Diamondbacks (20-43) reached double digits in scoring for
only the second time this season, the other time coming April 20
against the Florida Marlins (17-44). That was mostly because
knuckleballer Tom Candiotti had to leave the game in the second
with back spasms, handing the ball over to the A's bullpen.
Jay Witasick, called up from Triple-A Edmonton on Thursday, gave
up a homer to the first batter he faced, Dellucci, and that pretty
much set the tone. He gave up three homers and six runs in his 31/3
innings. At least Witasick has some promise. It's hard to say the
same about Aaron Small or T.J. Mathews, the next two A's relievers
to squirt a little kerosene on the fire.
ELMONT, N.Y. Darkness was falling upon Barn 9. It was nearly
three hours after one of the greatest Belmont Stakes in memory, one
of the most exciting finishes that ever could be scripted, and Mike
Pegram was leaning against a fence post by the barn.
All the outward glitz of a party-to-be were there. More than 100
people were clumped here and there around Real Quiet's barn, a
whole caravan of white and black stretch limousines all with Real
Quiet placards on their sides were parked beyond the barn, and
even more were lined up near the Belmont training track a half-mile
away. But the party chatter was low, there had been tears and there
could be little joy.
Pegram's horse had run 1 1/2 miles and had finished an inch
short, a nose shy in the jargon of horse racing. Pegram, the
ever-present can of Bud Light in hand, still seemed in shock. He
and his horse had come within an inch of a Triple Crown.
Pegram seemed almost believable. But still he seemed in shock as
he went through the motions of posing with a fan with a camera here
or giving an autograph to another fan with a Belmont Stakes program
there. The flash would not go off for the fan with the camera;
Pegram gamely posed a second time.
But to lose the Belmont that way, to lose the Triple Crown in
that fashion, to see $5 million slip away when your horse has
opened 4, 5, and 6 lengths in the stretch only to lose it all by a
nose was the cruelest way to lose. Pegram's face showed it; his
words wouldn't.
There had been many sights a few hours earlier. There had been
the haunting sight of D. Wayne Lukas, once the best of the New
Guard, striding into the jammed Belmont paddock to saddle not one,
but two horses ... and Lukas was all alone. Then, when his saddling
chores were done, Lukas walked through the tunnel that connects the
paddock to the track itself, turned left, and headed to the owner's
box ... again all alone.
Then, of course, there had been the stirring sight of Real Quiet
having the Belmont won, only to see Victory Gallop bearing down on
him in the final 16th of a mile, and finally catching Real Quiet in
the stirring, final jump.
There even was a ludicrous sight of the press release from the
stewards' box and the stewards saying they would have disqualified
Real Quiet if he had finished a nose ahead of Victory Gallop, and
not a nose behind ... and virtually no one in racing believed a
Triple Crown winner would have been disqualified on what was, at
best, a 50-50 call.
But, most of all, there was the sight of long-comatose Belmont
Park teeming and throbbing and bursting with fans and excitement.
Most, of course, were there to see a Triple Crown that was not to
be, but many were there also because they were drawn to the track
by the fun-loving crew that surrounded Pegram and trainer Bob
Baffert, who were on more New York City newscasts than Rudy
Giuliani or George Pataki.
WASHINGTON From entrepreneurial darlings to evil monopolists,
from nerds in a garage to corporate titans, Intel and Microsoft
symbolize the technology industry, the fastest-growing segment of
the U.S. economy.
The Federal Trade Commission will meet today on whether to file
an antitrust suit against Intel, following on the heels of a
similar Justice Department action against Microsoft. Sources expect
the FTC to approve an action against the Santa Clara chip giant.
With these two historic antitrust cases, the federal government
is targeting the two companies that more than any other symbolize
the phenomenal growth and success of the high-tech industry.
The lawsuits mark a sea change in antitrust enforcement. After
nearly 16 years of relative quiet on the issue of big-firm
domination, the federal government has opened an aggressive attack
on the twin behemoths of America's most prominent industry.
The stakes are high. Should the lawsuits succeed, they will
impose rules and limits on an industry that has prided itself on
its freewheeling independence.
Reminiscent of decades-old antitrust cases against big oil and
big steel, these suits seek to rearrange the driveshaft of the U.S.
economy.
However, neither case turns on classic antitrust issues, such as
predatory pricing. Instead, Intel and Microsoft appear to have
drawn the government's attention because smaller players had
complained about the two giants' dominance in their markets.
Since the mid-1970s, antitrust action against dominant firms had
been in full retreat, led by University of Chicago economists who
argued that the goal of antitrust should be to protect consumers,
not competitors.
By 1982, the Reagan administration virtually eliminated
dominant-firm cases; antitrust efforts were refocused on
anti-competitive mergers, collusion and criminal activity such as
bid-rigging and price-fixing.
A major exception was the 1984 breakup of ATT; the
administration argued, however, that ATT was more like a monopoly
created by government regulation than one derived by efficiency;
even as ATT's divestiture was announced, the Justice Department
dropped its 13-year antitrust case against IBM.
Although the Bush administration actually initiated the
investigation against Microsoft, dominant-firm antitrust action
began its real resurgence under President Clinton, with cases
against the mergers of Office Depot and Staples, and Lockheed and
Northrop, for example.
But politics are hardly all-explaining. Microsoft's critics and
defenders straddle the ideological map. Former judge Robert Bork,
whose 1978 book The Antitrust Paradox did much to lead the
antitrust retreat, is now heading the intellectual attack on
Microsoft. And Sen. Patty Murray, a liberal Democrat from
Microsoft's home state of Washington, is among the company's
staunchest defenders.
One reason for the revival of antitrust zeal, some say, is that
the cute little baby high tech firms of 1980s have grown into big
ugly giants. They and their founders dominate the Information Age
like the robber barons did the Industrial Revolution: Bill Gates
and Microsoft are today's version of John D. Rockefeller and
Standard Oil.
Some say it is high tech's greatest asset innovation that
makes it an antitrust target. Fierce global competition in mature
industries offers no room for monopolies in things like chemicals,
steel, automobiles and machinery.
A taste of this came with a recent appellate court decision
favoring Microsoft in which the government alleged that the company
violated the 1994 consent decree by bundling its Internet browser
with Windows 95.
Similarly, the FTC's anticipated case against Intel appears to
be quite narrow. It is expected to focus on whether the
market-leading chip firm had a right to withhold design information
on upcoming chips from companies that sued it for patent
infringement.
But even these narrowly drawn cases could enmesh the courts in
disputes over basic business strategies: how to market products,
how to write customer contracts, how to price products and how to
design them, and what obligations dominant companies have toward
their customers.
Others say Microsoft's tactics are a simple case of a monopolist
forcing consumers to buy its other products. Xerox tried it with
copier paper; IBM tried it with punch cards; even a manufacturer of
a salt dispenser to make snow melt tried to get everyone to buy its
salt too.
The resounding defeat of Al Checchi, a half-billionaire
businessman who spent $40 million of his own money in the race for
the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, brought forth a certain
populist euphoria a new conventional wisdom across the land that
even in flashy California, money can't buy you voters' love.
But tempting as it might be in light of current campaign-finance
scandals to conclude that voters rejected the corrosive power of
money in politics, the reality is considerably more complex, and
less uplifting.
For one thing, the winning candidate, Lt. Gov. Gray Davis, a
23-year veteran of state politics, is himself a relentless
fund-raiser, one often accused of blending his campaign-finance
outings with his official duties. And even if he seemed a pauper
compared to Checchi, his campaign spending still broke the old $9
million record for a gubernatorial primary campaign here, set in
1994.
Furthermore, a contrary example of the power of money loomed
just as large here last week: A $20-million campaign by organized
labor managed to defeat a ballot measure that would have required
unions to obtain annual written consent of their members before
using dues for political purposes. The measure was favored in early
public opinion polls, but its opponents outspent supporters 3 to 1,
and union members went to the polls in unusually large numbers,
helping Davis in the process.
There isn't much evidence that the rules of wealth and politics
have dramatically changed. Since at least the days of Andrew
Jackson, Americans have been ambivalent toward the wealthy in
politics, celebrating the triumph of log cabin little guys and
viewing elites with suspicion.
Some of those candidates spent money in ways that would almost
certainly be subject to intense media scrutiny now; for example, by
trading favors or greasing the palms of local political bosses. But
since the 1976 Supreme Court ruling that the First Amendment right
to free speech bars limits on a candidate's spending of his or her
own money, millionaires have had an unchallenged license to test
the political waters.
Indeed, politicians here and around the country said, Checchi's
money had less to do with his defeat than how he chose to spend it.
Even after 18 months crisscrossing the state talking to voters and
3 months of television commercials touting his private sector
accomplishments and teaching voters how to pronounce his name
(CHECK-ee), he drew about as many unfavorable ratings from poll
respondents as favorable ones not good news for any candidate.
Then, when Rep. Jane Harman, herself a millionaire, entered the
race and promptly took the lead in public opinion polls, Checchi
unleashed a relentless barrage of commercials attacking her, often
in misleading terms. That helped destroy Ms. Harman, who spent some
$16 million of family money on her campaign. But, in a kind of
murder-suicide, it also quadrupled Checchi's own negative ratings
and created an opening for Davis, who had been saving his
advertising money for the final stretch.
In the race for the Republican Senate nomination to challenge
Sen. Barbara Boxer, Darrell Issa, a multimillionaire car alarm
manufacturer who spent about $10 million, lost to state Treasurer
Matt Fong, but only after a wave of harshly critical news accounts
raised questions about Issa's business record and tactics.
Rich candidates have lost spectacularly in the past, of course,
including the cosmetics heir Ronald Lauder, who spent $14 million
in the 1989 Republican mayoral primary in New York City, and lost
to Rudolph Giuliani, who spent $2.5 million and won 67 percent of
the vote.
In California, former Rep. Michael Huffington, a Republican oil
heir, set the previous national record for individual spending here
four years ago, by pouring nearly $30 million of his family fortune
into a nearly successful campaign against Sen. Dianne Feinstein.
But Checchi's resounding defeat still set off ripples of shock,
precisely because Huffington, who was widely regarded as a
political and intellectual lightweight, came so close, and because
Checchi, an altogether more serious figure, spent about 30 percent
more in the primary alone than Huffington spent in his primary and
general election combined.
In general in recent years, polls have shown that most voters
are neutral-to-positive about candidates who finance their own
campaigns, while support for public campaign financing is often
tepid. But as this year's campaign wore on, voters here seemed
taken aback by the sheer reach of Checchi's record-breaking effort.
A poll in April by the Public Policy Institute of California
found that 6 in 10 voters were indifferent to a candidate's
decision to finance his own campaign, but by May, voters indicated
a marked preference, 52 percent to 34 percent, for candidates who
took the conventional route of collecting money from supporters.
In his final days on the campaign trail, Checchi went low-tech,
riding a yellow school bus around the state to highlight his
proposals for fixing the state's troubled schools, and publicly
lamenting that his rivals had outfoxed him by turning the race into
a debate about his money instead of his ideas.
The phrase appeared as far back as the early 1970s, uttered in
private conversations by Pakistani leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, in
reference to his country's hopes to go nuclear. In the atmosphere
of the time, it seemed a serious warning: that once one Islamic
nation had nuclear weapons, it would enhance the power of them all.
But is there such a thing as a bomb that exists for the sake of
Islam and for the destruction of Israel? Or do the phrase and the
oratory about it reveal other things instead a hunger and rivalry
for greatness by major Islamic countries, and the depth of Israel's
anxieties?
There is, today at least, no special reason to believe that
Pakistan's newly declared ability to build a nuclear arsenal will
provide a nuclear umbrella for other Islamic societies, or that
those other countries will find it easier to go nuclear themselves.
Yes, the idea of a global pan-Islamic community with a common
divine mission on earth has been trumpeted in Islamic oratory over
the years. But so far national interests have prevailed. Iran's
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini learned that lesson after he tried and failed to export his Islamic revolution.
Granted, Pakistan got some help from Muslim countries like Libya
and Saudi Arabia years ago for its nuclear program. But much more
important support came from other places: blueprints, enriched
uranium, tritium and scientific know-how from China; technology
(stolen) from the Netherlands. And the United States gave its tacit
consent all during the years that Pakistan's help was needed in the
Afghan conflict.
Now that Pakistan, which desperately needs financial aid, has
offended the United States by staging its nuclear tests, it would
seem to be in Pakistan's interest to keep its technology from
spreading something that would only offend the United States
more. Even if Pakistan decided to export its technology at a future
point, the reasons would most likely have nothing to do with
religion.
One reason is the utterances of Muslims themselves, who over the
years have publicly declared the need for an Islamic bomb.
Gen. Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, who ousted Bhutto and had him hanged,
condemned the rest of the world in 1986 for branding Pakistan's
bomb Islamic but in the same breath promoted the notion.
Another reason the notion persists is that Israel and its
supporters have long found it convenient to demonize Islamic states
and movements whose leaders find it convenient to assert
religion-based claims to Jerusalem. For the Israelis, the idea that
Islamic fervor could go nuclear provides a justification for
maintaining its own unacknowledged nuclear arsenal.
Over the long run, the most serious impact of the nuclear
explosions by Pakistan and India within the Islamic world may
be to revive the lust of rivals among the Islamic nations to
possess their own nuclear weapons.
Pakistan is, after all, a peer of a number of Middle Eastern
countries with grand ambitions and an even grander sense of their
place in the world's history Iranians who identify with ancient
Persia, Iraqis who remember Nebuchadnezzar, Egyptians who hark back
to the pharoahs and Syrians prideful of the ancient glories of
Damascus.
All can ask: Who are these upstart Pakistanis to think they lead
the Islamic world? What about us?
Officially, Egypt has underscored that the recent nuclear tests
prove just how urgent it is the make the Middle East a nuclear-free
zone. But some Egyptian commentators implied that Arab countries
made a mistake in signing on to the Nuclear Nonproliferation
Treaty.
UNITED NATIONS It has become an article of faith among those
who oppose abortion in the United States that promoting abortion
anywhere else, particularly in the world's poorest countries, is
tantamount to an attack on the cultures of those countries. It is a
new argument from the conservative right, but it echoes charges
that the radical left used to make, to the effect that family
planning programs targeted at the Third World were a kind of
neo-imperialistic genocide.
A statistical look around the world shows that if cultural
sensitivities are reflected in laws about abortion, there is a
remarkable divide between richer countries and poorer ones where
abortion and its effects are concerned. But other statistics
demonstrate that the pattern of legality does not reflect how women
in those societies choose to act.
In the global south, where abortion laws are the most
restrictive, abortion rates are still quite high; deaths from
abortion are much higher there than elsewhere, because the
abortions tend to be unsafe. The industrial countries of the global
north are almost universally less restrictive in their abortion
laws. They also have the lowest rates of abortion-related deaths.
Of about 20 million unsafe sometimes legal, but more often
illegal abortions estimated to take place each year worldwide, 90
percent occur in developing countries, according to the World
Health Organization. Of the 80,000 deaths that result, 95 percent
are in poor nations. That number does not include women who die of
miscarriages due to health problems or poor prenatal care; such
data do not exist.
The anti-colonial case has been made forcefully by Rep.
Christopher Smith, R-N.J., who has blocked U.S. payments to the
United Nations with an amendment denying money to any organization
that lobbies for liberalized abortion laws in any country. Smith, a
supporter of international child survival programs, says helping
poor children, not preventing them from being born, should be the
priority of foreign aid.
His legislation, which President Clinton has vowed to veto when
it reaches his desk, has created alarm among family planning and
women's health organizations, who see its bar to advocating
abortion as a challenge to free speech and a chilling factor that
would reduce the amount of money going to all types of population
work, including contraception, in the poorest countries, where they
think it is needed most.
Family planning organizations and women's health groups do not
argue that abortion should be encouraged as a method of birth
control. But they do argue for less restrictive laws in many
countries on the ground that such laws would cut deaths. They also
say family planning and community health groups in Africa, Asia and
Latin America have to deal with the results of botched and
life-threatening abortions, sometimes by completing the process of
clearing the womb a procedure that would put them on the wrong
side of U.S. law if Smith's proposal were adopted.
Because family planning services are not available to millions
of women who want them more than 350 million in the developing
world, according to surveys they turn to abortion, even where
illegal, and will continue to do so as a last resort, experts say.
Of course, the Pentagon still hands out plenty of Purple Hearts
and Bronze Stars. But the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest
honor, has been awarded only twice for valorous action since the
Vietnam War: to two Army sergeants killed in Somalia in 1993 as
they tried to help wounded comrades.
Eight World War II veterans, including seven who were denied the
medal because they were black, have also received the medal in the
past two years.
In wars past, that meant a bloodied pilot flying a crippled
bomber back to base in war-torn Europe, miraculously saving the
lives of his crew. Or a lone infantryman in an Asian jungle
fighting off hostile forces to rescue injured comrades behind enemy
lines.
Bravery like that is hard to come by now, when the conflicts
that U.S. troops engage in are typically brief affairs in which
unmanned Tomahawk cruise missiles have replaced firefights and tank
battles.
When the Congressional Medal of Honor Society meets this weekend
in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., more than half of the 163 living
recipients are expected to attend. Since 1863, 3,399 people have
received the award, including one woman, Mary Walker, a Civil War
surgeon from Oswego, N.Y.
While Pentagon officials insist the stringent requirements in
the statutes have not changed, some retired brass fear politics has
colored the selection process recently. There was even some
surprise at the Pentagon when President Clinton and Congress
approved the awards for the sergeants killed in Somalia.
Was there a chance that rewarding the soldiers' unquestionable
gallantry was a way to salve the wounds of a nation badly shaken by
the tragedy? Absolutely not, say Pentagon officials.
Given the reverence for valor in the military culture, it is
hard for civilians to understand the prestige the medal bestows on
its recipient. There are concrete benefits: an extra $400-a-month
pension and a lifetime pass for military aircraft. But the
intangibles are equally significant.
As an unrelenting defender of the idea that we need to
understand history, I was pleased to learn of the current essay
contest in which writers are asked to explain why they'd like to
dine on a gourmet meal in the cemetery where President James A.
Garfield is buried. 
I apologize if I'm the one to break the news to you about
Garfield's demise. But it was in all the papers in the summer of
1881, when Charles J. Guiteau, known to history as a disappointed
office seeker, shot Garfield at a railroad station in Washington,
D.C., only a few months into Garfield's term. 
Garfield, of tough Ohio stock, did not immediately go flatline
and sprout wings, however. Rather, he signed an extradition paper
as his last official act and then slipped into long and awkward
unconsciousness. 
At any rate, Garfield no relation to the cat finally cashed
in his chips on Sept. 19, 1881, some 80 days after the disgruntled
Guiteau plugged him. I cannot find any record of whether this made
Guiteau a little more gruntled, but perhaps my research has not
been thorough enough. 
Garfield's remains were hauled off to Lake View Cemetery at
12316 Euclid Ave. in Cleveland, Ohio, 44106-4393. I heave in the
full address here because you need it to enter this 50-word essay
contest, and quickly, too. The deadline is Thursday (6-11) and you
need an entry form. (Call 216-421-2665.) 
I have been to Cleveland dozens of times but never to the 285
acres that make up Lake View Cemetery, where, by the way, John D.
Rockefeller also is buried, to say nothing (and I intend to say
nothing) of Eliot Ness' ashes. 
So if I myself enter this contest, I will use as one of my
reasons for wanting to win my deep (about six feet) desire to come
to a place I've never visited. (Never having been there before is
also the only reason I can think of for my hope one day to visit
Idaho.) 
If you enter this contest, you will need to provide a reason for
wanting to win, besides simply being hungry and willing to satisfy
that hunger while hanging out at the Garfield Monument in
Cleveland. 
You might, for instance, feign interest in Garfield's youth,
during which his father (apparently not of very tough stock) died
when James was barely 2 years old. Or perhaps you could say you've
always been intrigued by anyone whose early schooling was done at a
place named the Western Reserve Eclectic Institute in Hiram, Ohio. 
I certainly have never known anyone who attended anything called
an Eclectic Institute. The closest was my childhood friend Bob
Lippold who, as I recall, once went to an electric institute,
though probably that's not all that close. 
Another approach would be to focus on how a man who gained so
much so quickly also lost it with equally blazing speed. 
For, you see, Garfield, who probably would have been a good
president, served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 18
years, becoming chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, one
of a handful of such committees always preceded by the word
powerful. But in 1880 the Ohio legislature elected him to the U.S.
Senate, which was how, back then, senators were picked. 
That very same year, the Republican national convention in
Chicago got divided between James G. Blaine and U.S. Grant, so it
chose Garfield on the 36th ballot. In November he beat Winfield
Hancock, the Democrat, by a hair. 
Less than a year later Garfield was decomposing in Cleveland. If
you can't compose a compelling essay with these facts, maybe you,
too, should be shot. 
WASHINGTON To Republicans intent on damning the tax code as an
inequitable tangle that is strangling the American family, Sharon
Mallory's appearance before the House Ways and Means Committee a
few months back was just the ticket. Miss Mallory, a 41-year-old
factory worker from Indiana, testified that she and her live-in
boyfriend, Darryl Pierce, would like to get married but could not
afford the $3,700 in additional taxes it would cost them.
Fueled by such anecdotal outrage, Congress is well on its way
toward overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many two-income
couples into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if they
were single.
The House took a big step in that direction Friday, adopting a
budget plan that makes eliminating the marriage penalty the No. 1
Republican tax goal this year.
But if the political appeal of attacking the marriage penalty is
clear, the policy arguments are less so.
More couples actually get a break from the way the tax code
treats marriage than pay a penalty. Single people who are already
at an economic disadvantage to couples, since they cannot spread
their living costs over two incomes would get nothing.
And the cost of eliminating or substantially reducing the
penalty for those who do pay it would be huge. Many Republicans
worry that it would crowd out other tax-cutting priorities, and
Democrats fret about lost spending opportunities.
Making the case for keeping the marriage penalty is a
treacherous business for members of both parties, few of whom are
willing to risk being seen as undermining a venerated institution.
The budget plan approved by the House on Friday would provide as
much as $100 million over the next five years to eradicate or
substantially reduce the marriage penalty.
In the Senate, both parties are seeking ways to use some of the
revenues that would be generated by the proposed tobacco
legislation to reduce the marriage penalty. Sen. Phil Gramm,
R-Texas, is developing a plan that would give a break to couples
earning less than $50,000, including those who are not affected by
the marriage penalty. Democrats are developing a narrower version
intended to help only couples who pay more because of the marriage
tax.
But the growing momentum for a quick fix belies the complexity
of addressing the marriage penalty.
For one thing, the penalty is hardly universal. While more than
20 million couples paid more in taxes in 1996 than they would have
if they were single, 25 million couples got a marriage bonus: They
paid less as a couple than they would have if they were single.
Most of the bonuses already go to the very families that social
conservatives consider the most traditional those in which the
husband works and the wife stays home. That is because the husband
would be entitled to more exemptions and deductions than he got
when he was single. For 1996, total bonuses of $32.9 billion, or
$1,300 per couple, outweighed total penalties of $28.8 billion, or
$1,380 per couple, by $4.1 billion.
Moreover, substantially reducing or eliminating the penalty
without raising taxes elsewhere would cost the federal government
at least $20 billion a year.
And while social conservatives want to allocate as much money as
possible to reducing the penalty, business groups and supply-side
Republicans and economists are queasy about allowing the issue to
crowd out cuts in other areas, like income tax rates, capital gains
taxes and inheritance taxes. Cuts that target a specific group are
considered by many economists to be an inefficient way of promoting
economic growth.
Perhaps most fundamentally, lawmakers have long found it
difficult to address the marriage penalty without creating some
other perceived inequity. Most of the proposals would do nothing
for single people. Most of the proposed fixes would also give more
help to people at the top of the income scale than those at the
bottom.
And some of the proposals would complicate the problem by
levying different amounts of taxes on couples with the same
combined incomes.
The current law is the product of decades of swings in policy
and public opinion about how to treat the income of married couples
in a way that is fair to two-income families, single-earner
couples, unmarried people and people across the income spectrum.
When the federal income tax was established in 1913, it was
levied on individuals, with no special provision made for married
couples. Starting in the 1920s, when relatively few married women
worked, some states passed laws allowing married couples to split
their income and pay at a lower rate than the husband would if he
had to file as an individual.
In 1948, Congress responded by changing the law to allow joint
filing, widening tax brackets enough that most married couples paid
less than if they were single.
Soon protests about the marriage penalty were heard. Best known
of the protesters were David and Angela Boyter, federal employees
from Baltimore who would divorce for tax purposes each December and
then remarry early in the new year to reduce their taxes. Congress
responded by creating a two-earner deduction in 1981.
But the deduction was eliminated in 1986. Since then, as the
number of two-income couples has increased, more people have became
subject to the marriage penalty. And the pressure to fix the
marriage penalty has increased accordingly.
Michael Jordan may be the best basketball player in history. He
may have more trophies and rings and sneaker contracts than any man
on the planet. He may even, as Fortune magazine has just
calculated, have contributed $10 billion to the global economy over
the last decade.
But he has not yet made the big leap that, if Wall Street has
its way, is in the future for all sorts of athletes and artists:
the leap from marketable commodity to tradeable security.
Entertainers are the least of it. Wall Street is securitizing
virtually everything that produces a predictable stream of cash.
Typhoon insurance. Tax liens. Loans for used cars and fraternity
houses. Fax machine leases. Mutual-fund fees. Unused airline
tickets. Movies yet to be made. Even defunct power plants.
The alchemy by which Wall Street turns stuff into securities
varies. The old-fashioned method is the stock offering, which has
been used by a number of sports teams. But there are risks for
celebrities who go public: both Debbie Reynolds' casino and Wilt
Chamberlain's restaurant chain bombed in the stock market.
Then there are derivatives, so called because their prices are
derived from the value of something else, like an index or a
security or a commodity. Some involve relatively straightforward
bets on things like the price of soybeans or Microsoft shares. The
infamous variety like the ones that got Orange County, Calif., in
trouble often involve wagers so arcane as to be inexplicable. In
the works are derivatives that let investors bet on the temperature
or rainfall in a geographic region.
But the really big idea on Wall Street today is securitization,
which began with home mortgages in the 1980s. Banks had made a lot
of them and wanted to sell them, but to whom?
Then someone had a bright idea. If Wall Street put together a
whole bunch of mortgages, the bundles would look almost like
traditional bonds. They would be relatively safe investments,
because even if one borrower defaulted, there would be plenty of
others still paying. Bond buyers, like mutual funds, pension funds
and amateur investors, jumped on these mortgage-backed securities.
This led to a creative burst on Wall Street. If securities could
be made out of mortgages, why not car loans, credit-card
receivables, business loans or bad debts?
The newest and sexiest twist involves using streams of income
from entertainers. In the first such deal, rock star David Bowie
sold $55 million of bonds last year backed by his anticipated
royalties.
Creating such deals has proved harder than many investment
bankers predicted, and the securities have been so complicated that
they are offered only to professional investors. Nonetheless,
several Wall Street firms have set up entertainment subsidiaries,
like one at Nomura that raised money for Rod Stewart.
David Pullman, the investment banker who successfully sold the
Bowie and Motown deals, says he has more up his sleeve. Film
libraries, television syndications, literary estates all could be
turned into securities, says Pullman, a managing director at
Fahnestock Co., a New York-based securities firm.
One of the few who might qualify is Michael Jordan, of course.
If Fortune is right, he'd be rated triple-A. Stockbrokers will be
standing by to take your call.
WASHINGTON Monica Lewinsky has her new legal dream team. She
will also surely have bigger bills to go along with the bigger
names now defending her.
Yet despite the fact that she comes from a well-off family, her
ability to carry this growing financial burden is open to question.
This is undoubtedly weighing on the 24-year-old Ms. Lewinsky and
her parents as legal activity on her behalf intensifies, and she
faces the critical decision of whether to cooperate with or fight
against the sex-and-coverup investigation of the White House by
independent counsel Kenneth Starr.
Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein, whom she retained last week, are
both senior members of a select coterie of Washington lawyers.
They've performed legal triage for a host of players in past
political scandals, from Fawn Hall, the secretary caught up in the
Iran-Contra affair, to Ken Parkinson, a Watergate figure whose
acquittal Stein won.
Their services do not come cheaply. Both men have hourly billing
rates in the range of $400 an hour.
And Ms. Lewinsky is already deep in the hole. When the final
bill is tallied, she'll likely owe more than $300,000 to her first
legal team, led by William Ginsburg, the family friend who served
as her principal lawyer until he was dismissed Tuesday; so say
Ginsburg and others familiar with the Lewinsky case.
Her expensive new retinue, worthy of her star billing in one of
the biggest controversies to rock Washington, is not limited to
Cacheris and Stein. There is also Nathaniel Speights, a Washington
trial lawyer who worked with Ginsburg and will remain on Ms.
Lewinsky's legal team. And a month ago Judy Smith, a respected
lawyer who once worked in the Bush White House, was retained by the
Lewinskys as family spokeswoman.
Ms. Lewinsky grew up in rarefied Beverly Hills and her father,
Bernard Lewinsky, who now lives in nearby Brentwood, is a
successful oncologist. Her mother, Marcia Lewis, long divorced from
her father, has apartments at the posh Watergate complex in
Washington and in New York. But despite being financially
comfortable amid trappings of wealth, family friends say, the
parents are not so rich as to absorb the six-figure legal bills
their daughter is incurring.
Ginsburg has said that Ms. Lewinsky would eventually have no
choice but to write a book or sell her story in order to pay off
her legal bills. But no one has approached her or her family with
any such offer recently. And any tell-all deal would certainly have
to wait until Ms. Lewinsky was out of legal jeopardy, a prospect
probably months away at the very least, if not years.
In part to minimize her legal expenses, Ms. Lewinsky did filing
and other routine office chores for Ginsburg and Speights. But this
was as much to fill her time as to make a dent in her debts.
As the subject of intense public scrutiny, Ms. Lewinsky can't do
much of anything these days, in terms of producing income or
otherwise, except to meet with her lawyers or stay secluded with
one of her parents. When she goes out in public, a fleet of TV
cameras is almost always in tow. Several weeks ago, a camera crew
staked out a bank branch near Speights' office in downtown
Washington, where Ms. Lewinsky had been using a cash machine.
In part to lift her sagging spirits, Ms. Lewinsky recently posed
in Malibu for a photo spread in Vanity Fair magazine. But according
to a spokeswoman for the magazine, Ms. Lewinsky wasn't paid
anything. And although she got to model some spiffy clothes, she
didn't get to keep them.
On the other hand, her high-profile dinners at swank Washington
restaurants with the ubiquitous Ginsburg do not appear to have
added to her legal bills; some of the restaurants may have fed them
gratis in return for the publicity of having such celebrated
guests.
Ms. Lewinsky is hardly alone in worrying about how to pay her
lawyers. After disbanding his legal defense fund, President Clinton
has established a new fund to help pay the more than $5 million he
owes to his lawyers at Williams Connolly and Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher.
Paula Jones, who sued the president for sexual harassment only
to have her case thrown out of court this year, is in a tussle with
two of her lawyers over $800,000 the lawyers say she owes them. And
a slew of current and former White House aides have amassed
six-figure legal bills as witnesses in Starr's $40 million inquiry.
Of course, the marquee value of representing a client like Ms.
Lewinsky is considerable, and therefore her new lawyers may be
willing to discount their rates or be patient about getting paid.
There could even be lucrative book offers down the road, but last
week they vowed to maintain a lower profile than Ginsburg, by
avoiding the TV talk-show circuit.
And for the time being, at least, the lawyers are under orders
to scrimp where they can. One specific request: no limousines to
see Starr.
PARIS Transportation strikes are an annoying fact of life in
France, yet most people sympathize with the strikers when the
subways shut down or truckers block the highways. After all, truck
drivers and railway workers don't make much money, and employers
seldom penalize workers for not showing up during transit strikes,
so it's easy to wish the strikers well.
But the renowned Gallic sang-froid was severely tested last week
by a strike by pilots at Air France, the state-owned airline, just
days before the nation plays host to the World Cup, the World
Series of soccer.
The pilots, whose average annual salary of $123,000 makes them
better paid than their counterparts at other major European
carriers like Lufthansa and British Airways, were protesting a
management plan to trim their pay by an average of $26,000 over the
next three to five years, and replace the income with stock
options.
With Air France, the official carrier for the World Cup, able to
fly only a fraction of its schedule, the French public was
outraged, for the first time in years, by what many saw as greedy
pilots. A poll published by Paris-Match last week showed that only
47 percent of those polled supported holding a transportation
strike during the World Cup. In December 1995, 62 percent of those
surveyed sympathized with striking rail and transport workers; in
November 1996, 74 percent supported striking truck drivers.
Chevenement and Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin were
elected a year ago by voters who never forgave Jospin's
conservative predecessor, Alain Juppe, for trying to cut the
pension benefits of the rail and transit workers in 1995 as part of
an unpopular government austerity plan to prepare for the coming
single European currency. When strikers shut down rail and mass
transit networks, the country was paralyzed, but with Christmas
approaching many workers were just as happy to back the strikers
and stay home.
This time things were different. The irony of a Socialist-led
government criticizing strikers is only one of many contradictions
in the latest episode in France's struggle to pull its cosseted
welfare-state economy into the 21st century.
Chevenement even had to deny rumors that he was considering
calling in the French equivalent of the National Guard to replace
the strikers the way that President Ronald Reagan replaced striking
American air traffic controllers in the early 1980s.
The French feel as strongly about soccer as they do about social
justice. Taxpayers put up $450 million for a new stadium in Paris
for the World Cup, and Air France planes have been splashed with
bright color pictures of players from 32 countries. Buses in Paris
display welcome signs in many languages, and special trains have
been arranged to transport fans and players among the 10 cities in
which the 64 games will be played.
France's national honor is at stake, the authorities keep
reminding people. No American-style private-sector improvisation, a
la Atlanta during the last Olympics and Denver during the 1994
World Cup, would do for the glory of France.
With a sense that the eyes of the world were on them, many
French felt indignation when transportation unions started in with
business as usual by trying to hold up employers for ransom just
when their work was most needed.
The pilots were not the only ones on the picket lines, though
truck drivers, who shut down the country's roads in 1997 and the
year before to get higher wages, promised they wouldn't think of
inconveniencing their fellow citizens during the World Cup, which
ends July 12.
A union representing 30 percent of the engineers for the state
railway network called a strike to begin on the eve of the Cup
opening. Conductors struck and disrupted rail traffic around the
country Friday. Public transportation in Lyons, where five games
will be played, was shut down by a strike Tuesday, and workers on
the Paris municipal transportation system threatened another for
this week.
But it was the pilots who bore the brunt of public resentment.
The French are notoriously suspicious of people who are better
off than they are, to the point of making anonymous telephone calls
to Finance Ministry inspectors to tip them off to people with
lavish life styles (one reason why owners of luxury homes in Paris
often hide them behind dilapidated building facades).
So it was difficult to muster much sympathy for the well-paid
pilots, who after all were not striking for better wages but
demanding cash instead of stock options as part of their salaries
when Air France is partly privatized later this year.
The airline said it needed to cut its annual payroll by $84
million to make itself more competitive in the European market, but
many French regard the stock market as a sort of untrustworthy
gambling casino. As elsewhere in Europe, there is great resistance
here to the idea of supplementing state pensions with the private
investment plans that make union pension funds such big players in
the stock market in America.
WASHINGTON Niccolo Machiavelli had it right: never assume the
other guy will never do something you would never do. Too bad
Machiavelli never worked for the CIA.
The world might be less dangerous than it is today had the CIA
and its sister intelligence services foreseen India's nuclear tests
last month. Armed with that foresight, the United States might have
been able to forestall a test, as it did back in 1995, and thus
prevent an arms race in one of the planet's least pacific places.
A report last week by retired Adm. David Jeremiah, a former vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, blamed the failure on
systemic flaws in the way the intelligence community gathers and
handles information, trains its thousands of analysts and commands
its $27-billion-a-year empire.
Instead, he said, U.S. analysts decided that the newly elected
Hindu nationalist political party, the BJP, couldn't possibly be
serious when it campaigned on a nuclear weapons platform.
Westerners saw good reasons for India to eschew testing and
therefore thought Indians must understand their own best interests
the same way.
Failing to follow such counsel led the United States to believe
that Japan would never attack Pearl Harbor and that Saddam Hussein
would never invade Kuwait.
There is something peculiarly American about the trap of
mirror-imaging. Americans overseas like foreigners to speak, dress,
eat and entertain as Americans do. They may well believe that
everybody also thinks as they do. The whole world buys Big Macs so the ideas must come along with them, like a side of fries. This
way of thinking meant that, last month, the United States
government looked down at India from its spy satellites and saw
the United States.
What does this say about the state of U.S. intelligence? First,
mirror-imaging filled a void. America had few or no spies in India
reporting on the nuclear program. So its analysts had to think
without the benefit of facts.
In its defense, the CIA was not the only outfit in Washington
that had a mirror where its crystal ball should be. So had the
White House, the Pentagon and the State Department.
The agency's reporting on Pakistan's subsequent nuclear tests
was prescient and precise. But Jeremiah found the CIA misread
India's nuclear ambitions because it was short on insight,
expertise, training and leadership a strange state of affairs for
an intelligence agency created to be the deepest think tank in the
world.
David Cone, the New York Yankees right-hander, was nipped on the
index finger of his pitching hand by his mother's dog and had to
yield his turn in the pitching rotation to Orlando (El Duque)
Hernandez, newly defected from Cuba. Thus a minor bite by a Jack
Russell terrier named Veronica facilitated the storybook odyssey of
a gifted pitcher, from ostracism in his Communist homeland to a
victorious debut in Yankee Stadium on Wednesday night.
Developments on the dog-bite front aren't usually so uplifting.
That was also clear last week for in case you didn't notice (and
it's a good bet David Cone didn't) it was National Dog Bite
Prevention Week.
The sponsors, the U.S. Postal Service and the Humane Society of
the United States, say that each day man's best friend chomps down
on 12,000 Americans mostly children, but also 7 postal employees
daily on average for a total of more than 4 million dog bites
annually. The cost? Ouch: hundreds of millions of dollars annually
in medical bills and liability claims.
The close association between humans and domesticated dogs began
at least 12,000 years ago. Since then, people have been intimately
involved in domesticating the wild dog into hunter, guard and
companion. However, the domesticated dog retains many of its wild
instincts, including behaviors that all too often lead to human
attacks. This risk has always been present. Only now, however, are
we beginning to gain a full understanding of the impact of dog
bites on populations.
Recent work by Sacks et al has improved the precision of
national estimates for dog bite-related mortality and for dog bites
receiving any medical attention. For the 10-year period 1979
through 1988, an annual average of about 15 fatal dog attacks was
documented in the United States, with extrapolated estimates
suggesting that as many as 20 per year may have actually occurred.
Based on a random household survey, the Injury Control and Risk
Survey conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
it was estimated that about 800,000 bites occur annually that
require medical attention.
(BEGIN ITALICS HERE)Of course, there are many minor bites that
go without medical attention. But by sifting national data on
emergency-room visits, the researchers were able to focus on the
most serious injuries:(END ITALICS HERE)
The annualized weighted estimate of the incidence of new dog
bite-related injuries seen in U.S. E.D.'s (emergency departments)
was 333,687 (annually) for a rate of 12.9 per 10,000 persons. These
injuries comprised about 0.4 percent of all emergency-department
visits during the study period. . . .
Ages of victims of dog bite-related injuries ranged from younger
than 1 year to 91 years (median age: 15 years). Incidence rates
were significantly higher among children aged 0 to 9 years,
especially among boys. The 5- to 9-year-old male age group had the
highest rate, 60.7 emergency-department visits per 10,000 persons.
The estimated 57,580 dog bite-related visits for boys aged 5 to 9
years represent 3.6 percent of all injury-related
emergency-department visits in this age and sex group.
Among the cases in which body part area could be determined
(about two thirds of the cases), the face, neck and head (combined)
were the leading body-part sites affected (29 percent), followed by
the upper limbs and lower limbs. Among children aged 0 to 9 years,
73 percent of the injuries with attributed injury site were to the
face, head and neck, while all other ages had only 30 percent of
the injuries occur to the head, face and neck. There was a
nonsignificant trend toward a seasonal distribution of the
incidence of dog bite injuries, with the highest rates being
observed during the summer months.
Every animal is an individual and his/her character and
personality traits are determined by much more than genetic
background. Not every border collie is intelligent, nor is every
collie loyal to his/her owner. Certainly, not every rottweiler, pit
bull or German shepherd is a dangerous dog. . . .
Data on human fatalities from dog bites do tend to implicate
specific breeds of dogs as killers. Of the dog breeds or breed
mixes known to have caused human fatalities from 1979 through 1994,
five breeds alone account for more than one of every three of those
deaths the pit bull (57), rottweiler (19), German shepherd (17),
Siberian husky (12) and Alaskan malamute (12). . . .
Unfortunately, data linking breeds with NONFATAL bites are hard
to come by. There is no nationwide reporting agency for animal
bites; therefore, information about which breeds of dogs most
commonly bite is unavailable.
Q. If a dog is sleeping in the yard, it is a good idea to
quietly slip by so you don't disturb the dog. True or false?
A. FALSE. Dogs have keen senses; under these conditions, you
would probably startle the dog and increase the possibility of an
attack. The right procedure? Make a soft noise, such as a low
whistle, so the dog won't be surprised. Keep your eye on the dog,
and if you must withdraw, back up slowly and carefully to avoid a
fall.
Q. Turning away and retreating quickly from a dog will probably
prevent you from being bitten. True or false?
A. FALSE. Turning and running often increases the dog's
excitement and provides an opportunity for it to bite while your
back is turned. The proper procedure? Stand your ground initially;
face the dog; use a purse, briefcase, book, coat or jacket as a
shield between you and the dog; and back away slowly.
Though he has had a distinguished 15-year career, Yzerman didn't
achieve a great deal of recognition until last year. Ironically,
that recognition comes as his offensive numbers are diminishing.
After being strictly an offensive gun from 1987-88 through 1992-93 when he had more than 100 points each season Yzerman has become
a strong, dependable two-way player.
This year he had 69 points in the regular season, 24 of them
goals. In the playoffs, which concluded Tuesday when Detroit
finished its sweep of the Washington Capitals, Yzerman had 6 goals
and 24 points in 22 games.
Yzerman, like Bruins captain Ray Bourque, would like to have a
career that spans 20 years.
On a night when the leaderboard changed at the top of the
American League West, the bottom stayed the same. The Anaheim
Angels took over first place ahead of the Texas Rangers and buried
the Mariners a little deeper in the basement with a 3-2 victory
before 27,952 fans at Edison Field.
Swift, the Mariner staff leader in wins with six, absorbed the
most pain in Seattle's ninth loss in 12 games against
California-based teams, suffering a bruised right pectoral muscle
when clobbered by a line drive in the second inning. Although his
status is listed as day-to-day, the veteran sounded as though his
next turn is in jeopardy.
Tuesday night, Angels second baseman Justin Baughman hit a line
drive up the middle and Swift barely had time to react. He ducked,
turned his head and put his glove up for protection. The ball hit
the right side of Swift's chest.
The stunned pitcher retrieved the ball between the mound and
first base, underhanded a throw to Segui and continued toward the
Mariner dugout, being met by manager Lou Piniella and trainer Rick
Griffin.
Swift shrugged off the pain, returned to the mound and finished
the inning. But after watching the right-hander throw several
warmup tosses before the third inning, Piniella went to the mound,
put his arm around Swift's shoulders and made a pitching change.
Swift said he tried to continue, but he could feel tightness
developing and returned to the clubhouse for treatment.
As poorly as the Mariners have played defense this season, Segui
was the exception. He had no errors through the first 69 games.
Segui misplayed Darin Erstad's inning-opening grounder in the
first and ex-Mariner Dave Hollins doubled to right. Jim Edmonds
then delivered a two-run single to right field.
The bobble forced Segui to hold the runner on base and open a
hole between first and second. Hollins found it with a line drive.
The Angels, knocking the Rangers out of first place for the
first time since April 7, scored the eventual game-winning run in
the third inning off Bob Wells.
After Segui's double put runners on second and third with one
out, Edgar Martinez hit a run-scoring infield out and Glenallen
Hill scored another with his second double of the game.
But until the sixth, another familiar Mariner problem
re-emerged: the inability to get hits with runners in scoring
position. Seattle had runners on second base in each of the first
four innings and none advanced.
PARIS Tab Ramos was just one of 22 clueless Americans eight
years ago on an adventure they had no hope to comprehend. Thrown
into the World Cup the United States' first since 1950 the Yanks
arrived in Italy as tourists, as rank amateurs taking on seasoned
pros. They found themselves headed home, humiliated, just two weeks
later.
It's a memory that popped into his head Monday night as he
looked on in disgust as the Americans, now professionals with World
Cup aspirations, were overpowered by Germany in their World Cup
opener. He couldn't abide the hesitation in the United States'
play, the manner with which they backed down to the Germans in the
first 45 minutes of the clash at Parc des Princes.
Balboa, too, was part of that team; Lalas was in the stands, his
face painted red, white and blue, his dreams of Cup glory still
four years off. They didn't enjoy what they saw Monday night,
either, but it was Ramos who felt he must speak out.
The reasons behind that are arguable. Some, Reyna included,
believe Coach Steve Sampson left too many experienced players
Ramos, Balboa and Lalas included on the bench. Others, among them
Sampson, think the Yanks reacted poorly after surrendering an early
goal and couldn't bounce back. Whatever the reason, it wasn't a
pretty sight; aside from the first 15 minutes or so of the second
half, the United States had no business being on the field with
Germany.
That would be the end of the Americans' Cup. A victory over the
Iranians is essential to keeping its second-round hopes alive, and
some sort of positive result a win or a tie; we won't know which
until after Sunday also is necessary against Yugoslavia on June 25.
Ramos hopes to make an impact against Iran. Sampson has told him
he'll start in that game, probably in place of Ernie Stewart.
Frankie Hejduk, who nearly pulled the Americans even with a fine
header in the 53rd minute, also will be in the lineup, if one hears
the messages Sampson is sending; he'll step in for Mike Burns, as
he did at halftime on Monday. The other potential change from the
first-game lineup would be Roy Wegerle in place of Eric Wynalda,
but Sampson said Tuesday he has not yet made a determination on a
starting forward.
It was clear from the first minute how Germany planned to
neutralize the Americans take midfielder Claudio Reyna out of the
match and their plan worked to perfection.
Reyna, whom the Germans were familiar with from his work with
Bundesliga straggler VfL Wolfsburg, received a blow to the kidney
from Jens Jeremies just seconds into Monday's clash, and the 1860
Munich midfielder beat up on Reyna the rest of the night.
The biggest criticism of Reyna, widely considered the greatest
player the United States has produced, is that he doesn't like
physical play. Expect the Iranians and Yugoslavs to treat him in a
similar manner.
Winger Frankie Hejduk, the surfer-turned-soccer star who made
the biggest impact for the Americans on Monday, took a page from
baseball superstition and twisted it in an effort to overcome the
Germans.
Eric Wynalda, who didn't manage even a shot in 63 minutes as the
Americans' striker, says he knew things were going wrong almost
from then start.
As the 98th U.S. Open unfolds Thursday at The Olympic Club, the
ground has shifted, something that happens a lot in this town. The
guy with the goatee and wraparound sunglasses belongs inside the
ropes, not outside them. In fact, put David Duval not Tiger Woods at the top of golf's leader board.
For 12 months, since the previous U.S. Open at Congressional
Country Club in Bethesda, Md., Duval has ruled the game like no
other. Check the win column. Check his bank statements.
Duval, 27, a Jacksonville, Fla., native and son of a Senior PGA
Tour player, carefully sidesteps the issue of whether he is golf's
top player now. But he didn't dismiss it.
Of course, Duval's absolute brilliance won't last forever. Golf
never permits anyone to get too comfortable or too cocky. The
latest reminder of this came when Woods hit his plateau, posting
merely reasonable success after an astonishing pro debut.
What Duval has done is tantalize us with the possibilities of
returning golf to its heyday a stage for two heavyweights to
separate themselves from the PGA Tour masses on a regular basis and
clearly divide the galleries. Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus did
this. So did Byron Nelson and Ben Hogan. Match play.
The '80s had no such arrangement, nor have the '90s so far,
forcing golf followers to settle for man against the game, the
course or the elements. Which is not nearly as much fun.
Woods, 23, and Duval have the shots to get this done and slip
away from the rest of golf's enormously talented 20-something
players, a group that includes Justin Leonard, Ernie Els, Phil
Mickelson and Jim Furyk. Since last year's U.S. Open, Woods and
Duval have played in 14 tournaments together. Head to head, they
are 7-7. In majors, they are 2-2. In 13{ events together (Duval
missed one cut), four strokes separate them, in Duval's favor.
Woods carries an edge in length, averaging seven more yards per
drive (295.6) than Duval in 1998. Yet Duval leads the tour in
putting (1.705 per hole) and birdies (4.61 per round) this season.
With the exception of a green jacket and he had an arm in one
sleeve last April before finishing second to Mark O'Meara Duval
has done it all. He just hasn't let you know it. There have been no
leg-splitting, fist-pumping gyrations, no commercials, few magazine
covers.
Duval chooses to go about his work without the sideshow. This
seems to satisfy him. This seems to be his only drawback in the
public's mind. But that's OK. Nicklaus, when initially compared to
the swash-buckling Palmer, was said to be about as dull as watching
a fairway being mowed. Duval suffers from a similar perception.
Woods had his normal circus-like following Tuesday during a
morning practice round at Olympic, while Duval had far fewer fans
watching him prepare. It's human nature.
Some players remain just as adamant as the fans over the game's
top player. Five recent wins make no difference to them either.
Woods' smugness and confidence seem to greatly overshadow the
workmanlike Duval. And it starts at home.
Maybe Duval was effectively humbled before he could think of
getting a big head. A four-time All-American at Georgia Tech and
1993 college player of the year, he failed to earn his tour card
and spent the '93 and '94 seasons on the Nike Tour. Once on the big
tour, he suffered through the indignation of several near-misses,
finishing as a tournament runner-up seven times before his
breakthrough.
Duval keeps himself well grounded. While Woods bounces from
restaurant openings to photo shoots away from the course, the
Floridian goes skiing or surfing off the beaten track. He arrived
at the Open after a week of fishing in Montana. He'll leave the
glitz for Woods, but he remains competitive.
Two weeks ago in Ohio, Duval looked out at a crowded room of
reporters and kidded that they must have been expecting Tiger.
Then, as if acknowledging his newly acquired star status, he had
another observation.
TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say it
is due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy. In
Japan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out of
Japan.
With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and many
depositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for their
money, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to look
abroad. When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would begin
to weaken.
Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just the
interest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over
10 percent per annum for the past five years.
What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but the
absence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that the
economy would not recover quickly.
Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recovery
were the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.
It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of the
rules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.
Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, what
we see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchange
markets work.
Similarly with the economy generally. It has long been obvious
that no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse of
the grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubble
economy of the early '90s.
Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chance
that it would spiral. Even interest rates at close to zero would
not stop the rot.
The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister and
Keynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992. But, as he said
on a recent television program, his proposal then for the
government to step in decisively to rescue bank loans already
turning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided on
every side, and by the business community especially.
In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late last
year to introduce an item that had long been high on the Finance
Ministry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscal
restraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscal
expansion.
Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,
massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity and
current pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up as
extra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan's
demand-starved economy.
Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stop
listening to these experts. Firm action to expand government
spending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.
These moves may be in time to rescue the economy. But things
would have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, if
they had come in 1992. 
 (EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,
contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.) (To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the International
Herald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE
in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
SAN FRANCISCO Aching back and all, Fred Couples on Tuesday
said he likes his chances to win the 98th U.S. Open. In his bag, he
carries course familiarity. He might be 800 miles from his
birthplace, but he feels at home at The Olympic Club.
The 38-year-old golfer, still fighting the back stiffness that
has plagued him much of the past four years, spent long sessions on
the driving range before and after a five-hour practice round. He
was all business, rifling iron shot after iron shot toward the
ocean.
Yet Couples paused long enough to ponder an August return to
Seattle for the PGA Championship, the likely discontinuation of his
hometown charity tournament after three years and life after his
father's death.
Couples expects his PGA appearance at Sahalee Country Club to be
highly emotional, one marking his first competitive appearance
before friends and relatives. Tenative plans have him arriving
early for the major tournament and playing a few extra rounds in
Redmond, then staying over and relaxing with those closest to him.
Couples is counting on future playing trips to his old haunts as
well, with the new TPC Course at Snoqualmie Ridge expected to
attract a PGA Tour stop as early as next year.
Couples, his hair graying around the edges, said he has found an
inner peace which comes from moving on from personal tragedy and
playing well again. His father, Tom, died from cancer last year.
Couples enters the Open coming off a win at The Memorial two
weeks ago, his second of the season. He has runner-up finishes at
the Masters and Byron Nelson, two events that easily could have
been victories.
He sees a score close to par winning at The Olympic Club. He
sees a guy hanging tough in the tortuous conditions pulling out a
hard-earned victory. He sees himself.
TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say it
is due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy. In
Japan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out of
Japan.
With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and many
depositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for their
money, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to look
abroad. When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would begin
to weaken.
Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just the
interest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over
10 percent per annum for the past five years.
What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but the
absence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that the
economy would not recover quickly.
Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recovery
were the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.
It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of the
rules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.
Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, what
we see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchange
markets work.
Similarly with the economy generally. It has long been obvious
that no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse of
the grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubble
economy of the early '90s.
Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chance
that it would spiral. Even interest rates at close to zero would
not stop the rot.
The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister and
Keynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992. But, as he said
on a recent television program, his proposal then for the
government to step in decisively to rescue bank loans already
turning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided on
every side, and by the business community especially.
In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late last
year to introduce an item that had long been high on the Finance
Ministry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscal
restraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscal
expansion.
Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,
massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity and
current pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up as
extra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan's
demand-starved economy.
Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stop
listening to these experts. Firm action to expand government
spending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.
These moves may be in time to rescue the economy. But things
would have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, if
they had come in 1992. 
 (EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,
contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.) (To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the International
Herald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE
in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say it
is due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy. In
Japan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out of
Japan.
With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and many
depositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for their
money, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to look
abroad. When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would begin
to weaken.
Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just the
interest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over
10 percent per annum for the past five years.
What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but the
absence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that the
economy would not recover quickly.
Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recovery
were the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.
It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of the
rules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.
Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, what
we see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchange
markets work.
Similarly with the economy generally. It has long been obvious
that no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse of
the grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubble
economy of the early '90s.
Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chance
that it would spiral. Even interest rates at close to zero would
not stop the rot.
The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister and
Keynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992. But, as he said
on a recent television program, his proposal then for the
government to step in decisively to rescue bank loans already
turning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided on
every side, and by the business community especially.
In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late last
year to introduce an item that had long been high on the Finance
Ministry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscal
restraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscal
expansion.
Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,
massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity and
current pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up as
extra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan's
demand-starved economy.
Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stop
listening to these experts. Firm action to expand government
spending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.
These moves may be in time to rescue the economy. But things
would have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, if
they had come in 1992. 
 (EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,
contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.) (To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the International
Herald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE
in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
WASHINGTON Just like the advent of the first millennium, the
approach of the year 2000 is bringing dire predictions of disaster.
Doomsayers are warning of aircraft falling from the sky, riots,
famine, martial law and stock market crashes.
This time, however, the warnings are based not on superstition
but on hardheaded analyses of the potentially devastating effects
of the so-called millennium bug the inability of computers to
recognize the year 2000 because past programmers used only two
digits to denote years, without identifying the century.
A few scattered optimists still argue that the problem has been
grossly exaggerated, and it is true that some of the worst-case
scenarios are overly hysterical. But most experts insist that it is
now too late to avoid serious disruptions.
Several hundred professionals surveyed by the Washington D.C.
Year 2000 Group rated the impact of the problem on the United
States at an average of just under five on a scale of zero to 10 with 10 representing the collapse of the U.S. government and
possible famine.
A rating of five signified mild recession, isolated food, fuel
and power shortages, disruption of transport services such as
trucking and air travel and runs on banks. Some people, however,
fear it will be much worse.
Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell,
told a recent conference organized by the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington that there was a 60 percent
chance of a severe global recession and that Wall Street could fall
by 30 percent next year.
Much will depend on how far governments and private businesses
succeed in defusing the time bomb over the next 18 months. Nobody,
however, believes that all the errors will be corrected not even
in the United States, which leads the world in tackling the
problem.
Most other countries are far behind. Instead of giving priority
to the millennium bug, Asia is largely focusing on resolving its
financial crisis and Europe on introducing its single currency, the
euro. Many developing countries are hardly aware of the danger.
Even companies and government departments that think they have
made the necessary technical adjustments will be vulnerable to
disruptions if their suppliers and other contacts have failed to do
so.
One does not have to believe the most extreme scenarios to take
the sensible precautions most experts now recommend. Businesses,
for instance, should assign top managers, not just technical
experts, to the problem, draw up contingency plans for coping with
systems failures and postpone complicated operations like
accounting changes.
Much of the same applies to governments, which have the added
responsibility for heading off military disasters, such as might be
caused, for example, by false warnings of nuclear missile attacks.
Above all, political leaders urgently need to explain the risks
and activate coordinated responses. In the United States, there is
widespread amazement at the silence of Vice President Al Gore, the
administration's top computer geek, whose bid for the presidency in
the 2000 elections could be at stake.
There is no need to take to the hills, as some survivalists are
urging. But the Central Intelligence Agency is advising its
employees to pay their bills early in December 1999, keep cash on
hand and lay in extra blankets.
And many people, whether they are superstitious or not, probably
won't want to be in a plane as the millennium dawns. (To publish this 650-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
WASHINGTON Just like the advent of the first millennium, the
approach of the year 2000 is bringing dire predictions of disaster.
Doomsayers are warning of aircraft falling from the sky, riots,
famine, martial law and stock market crashes.
This time, however, the warnings are based not on superstition
but on hardheaded analyses of the potentially devastating effects
of the so-called millennium bug the inability of computers to
recognize the year 2000 because past programmers used only two
digits to denote years, without identifying the century.
A few scattered optimists still argue that the problem has been
grossly exaggerated, and it is true that some of the worst-case
scenarios are overly hysterical. But most experts insist that it is
now too late to avoid serious disruptions.
Several hundred professionals surveyed by the Washington D.C.
Year 2000 Group rated the impact of the problem on the United
States at an average of just under five on a scale of zero to 10 with 10 representing the collapse of the U.S. government and
possible famine.
A rating of five signified mild recession, isolated food, fuel
and power shortages, disruption of transport services such as
trucking and air travel and runs on banks. Some people, however,
fear it will be much worse.
Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell,
told a recent conference organized by the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington that there was a 60 percent
chance of a severe global recession and that Wall Street could fall
by 30 percent next year.
Much will depend on how far governments and private businesses
succeed in defusing the time bomb over the next 18 months. Nobody,
however, believes that all the errors will be corrected not even
in the United States, which leads the world in tackling the
problem.
Most other countries are far behind. Instead of giving priority
to the millennium bug, Asia is largely focusing on resolving its
financial crisis and Europe on introducing its single currency, the
euro. Many developing countries are hardly aware of the danger.
Even companies and government departments that think they have
made the necessary technical adjustments will be vulnerable to
disruptions if their suppliers and other contacts have failed to do
so.
One does not have to believe the most extreme scenarios to take
the sensible precautions most experts now recommend. Businesses,
for instance, should assign top managers, not just technical
experts, to the problem, draw up contingency plans for coping with
systems failures and postpone complicated operations like
accounting changes.
Much of the same applies to governments, which have the added
responsibility for heading off military disasters, such as might be
caused, for example, by false warnings of nuclear missile attacks.
Above all, political leaders urgently need to explain the risks
and activate coordinated responses. In the United States, there is
widespread amazement at the silence of Vice President Al Gore, the
administration's top computer geek, whose bid for the presidency in
the 2000 elections could be at stake.
There is no need to take to the hills, as some survivalists are
urging. But the Central Intelligence Agency is advising its
employees to pay their bills early in December 1999, keep cash on
hand and lay in extra blankets.
And many people, whether they are superstitious or not, probably
won't want to be in a plane as the millennium dawns. (To publish this 650-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) 
The phrase referred to middle-class housewives, characterized as
soccer moms, who often drove their kids to soccer games or
practices.
It was coined against the background of the growing popularity
of soccer in the United States in this particular demographic
segment two years after the country played host to the World Cup in
1994.
Four years later, as the U.S. team competes in the World Cup in
France, soccer commentators and the media are once again discussing
the same old subject: Is soccer taking hold in the United States?
Some observers say, however, that soccer as a spectator sport
has yet to take root in American society, although it has taken
hold in schools and colleges, and Hispanic immigrants
enthusiastically follow the game.
Some say that soccer does not appeal to the psyche of Americans
as much as basketball because of few goals and no breaks.
According to the Soccer Industry Council of America, a committee
of the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, 18 million
Americans played soccer at least once in 1997, unchanged from the
1995 figure. In 1993, the number was 16.4 million.
While soccer has not reached the status of basketball and
baseball, the American Soccer Federation is embarking on a new
project that looks ahead to 2010.
According to the project, about $50 million will be spent for
soccer development during the next 12 years. The federation will
expand on its current program called Project 40, in which teenagers
leave college soccer to join professional teams in exchange for
room, board and scholarship.
The federation intends to have up to 120 youth players in its
professional development program by 2009, according to Remedi.
How far the project will succeed remains to be seen, and the
future of soccer as a spectator sport is anyone's guess.
But John Williams, a sociologist at the University of Leicester,
doubts that soccer will ever become a major sport in the United
States.
Duncan Sisson, 18, from New York, who watched the U.S. national
team beaten by Germany 2-0 on June 15 at the Paris stadium, said he
prefers soccer to other games like baseball and basketball.
The phrase referred to middle-class housewives, characterized as
soccer moms, who often drove their kids to soccer games or
practices.
It was coined against the background of the growing popularity
of soccer in the United States in this particular demographic
segment two years after the country played host to the World Cup in
1994.
Four years later, as the U.S. team competes in the World Cup in
France, soccer commentators and the media are once again discussing
the same old subject: Is soccer taking hold in the United States?
Some observers say, however, that soccer as a spectator sport
has yet to take root in American society, although it has taken
hold in schools and colleges, and Hispanic immigrants
enthusiastically follow the game.
Some say that soccer does not appeal to the psyche of Americans
as much as basketball because of few goals and no breaks.
According to the Soccer Industry Council of America, a committee
of the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, 18 million
Americans played soccer at least once in 1997, unchanged from the
1995 figure. In 1993, the number was 16.4 million.
While soccer has not reached the status of basketball and
baseball, the American Soccer Federation is embarking on a new
project that looks ahead to 2010.
According to the project, about $50 million will be spent for
soccer development during the next 12 years. The federation will
expand on its current program called Project 40, in which teenagers
leave college soccer to join professional teams in exchange for
room, board and scholarship.
The federation intends to have up to 120 youth players in its
professional development program by 2009, according to Remedi.
How far the project will succeed remains to be seen, and the
future of soccer as a spectator sport is anyone's guess.
But John Williams, a sociologist at the University of Leicester,
doubts that soccer will ever become a major sport in the United
States.
Duncan Sisson, 18, from New York, who watched the U.S. national
team beaten by Germany 2-0 on June 15 at the Paris stadium, said he
prefers soccer to other games like baseball and basketball.
The quintet that saw its first-half champion finish just two
games over .500 refused to bow down to a Valley Division that
claimed four of five teams completing the halfway mark with at
least a .500 record, including first-place San Jose's 46-24 mark.
The Freeway took a major detour in the fifth inning, however,
and the favored Valley Division took command, scoring five times to
win the game 9-4.
With his team leading 3-2, Freeway Division pitcher Brent Iddon
of the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes was the victim of both timely Valley
hitting and shoddy defense by his teammates.
The carnage began with singles by Michael Byas and Jeff DaVanon.
With Byas at third, right fielder Luke Allen misjudged Josh
Klimek's fly ball for a three-base error and the go-ahead runs.
Iddon recorded one out but yielded a smash off the
right-center-field fence by Modesto's Cody McKay for a triple. When
Allen bobbled the ball for his second error of the inning, the A's
catcher chugged around third and scored to make it 6-3.
The circus atmosphere didn't stop there after Rod Barajas
doubled and moved to third on a groundout. With Visalia's Mike
Holmes in for Iddon, JetHawk Adonis Harrison's grounder to the
right side was booted by second baseman Dionys Cesar of Visalia.
San Jose's Juan Dilone, a 25-year-old veteran of seven
minor-league seasons, was the unanimous choice as the game's most
valuable player after going for 3 for 4 with a home run and three
RBI.
JetHawks right-hander Brian Sweeney struck out the side
sandwiched between a walk in his one inning to earn the pitching
victory.
The Freeway Division started quickly when San Bernardino's Rich
Saitta hit the 1-2 pitch of San Jose's Jason Grote over the
right-center-field fence for a home run leading off the game.
Twice the Valley Division tied the score but fell behind a run,
the last time in the top of the fifth when JetHawks ace Patrick
Dunham allowed the go-ahead run on Luke Allen's RBI single.
This All-Star game meant as much to Visalia's Duane Filchner
than perhaps to any of the remaining 43 players. The 25-year-old,
in his fourth season with the Oakland A's organization, retired
following the game in favor of a position in the athletic
department at Radford University.
Filchner participated in the pregame home run contest and
thrilled the crowd by going deep 12 times in the opening round.
Filchner, who singled in three at-bats as the starting designated
hitter, reached the finals against Modesto's McKay. After each hit
one home run, McKay defeated his Oakland teammate with a homer over
the fence in right in a one-pitch tiebreaker. Combining the three
rounds, Filchner actually outhomered McKay 19-18.
Tuesday's 10-6 loss to the San Diego Padres at Qual Comm Stadium
dropped them 10{ games back in the National League West, the
largest deficit they have faced in almost five years.
Those kinds of numbers are numbing for a team that was
overhauled a month ago in hopes of bringing it back to life. So far
it hasn't happened. What is next? Firing Bill Russell? Benching
Bobby Bonilla?
They knew coming to San Diego they were facing the hottest team
in baseball. The Padres (45-25) now have eight consecutive
victories and reclaimed the National League West lead by sweeping
San Francisco over the weekend.
The Dodgers, who appeared to have passed the .500 mark for good
Friday, have dropped three in a row and are 34-35.
It is bad enough that Ramon Martinez could be facing
season-ending surgery after reinjuring his right shoulder on
Sunday. It didn't help that Chan Ho Park failed to step into
Martinez's role as the staff ace.
Park (5-4) gave up a two-run double to Tony Gwynn in the third
inning that tied the game 2-2. It was Gwynn's first start in a week
since straining his left calf.
With the game tied 3-3 in the sixth, Park allowed a two-run
homer to Ken Caminiti. Although the Dodgers scored three runs in
the ninth, they never recovered from Caminiti's home run.
The Dodgers even spotted him a 2-0 lead on home runs by Gary
Sheffield and Raul Mondesi on a rare night when Padres right-hander
Kevin Brown (7-3) did not have his best stuff.
The Padres appeared to blow open the game in the seventh when
former Dodger Carlos Hernandez lined a three-run double into the
left-field corner against Mark Guthrie, who replaced Park after six
innings.
Guthrie allowed a fourth run and all of them were unearned. With
one out, Greg Vaughn grounded to short, but Eric Young did not
touch the bag as he tried to complete a double play.
Second-base umpire Jim Quick ruled the base runner, Caminiti,
was safe. When Hernandez doubled it just seemed like piling on. It
turned out to be a critical play.
Before the game, the Dodgers held a players-only meeting with
hopes of regaining some of the fire lost in back-to-back losses to
Colorado on Saturday and Sunday.
The Dodgers rallied for three runs in the ninth inning against
right-hander Brian Boehringer. Jose Vizcaino singled home two runs
and Sheffield followed with an RBI double. But Trevor Hoffman came
on to get the final out for his 21st save in 21 opportunities, the
only closer in the majors who is perfect this season.
Sheffield continue his hot hitting since joining the club in the
big trade with the Florida Marlins. With three more hits he is
batting .352 (35 for 96) since joining the club.
But Bonilla continues to struggle since his first weekend with
the club. Tuesday, Bonilla went 0 for 4, including an inning-ending
double play in the eighth after the first two batters reached base.
Sonic president Wally Walker has settled on Westphal to become
the team's next head coach, the Post-Intelligencer has learned. A
source within the organization and another close to the situation
said Walker would name Westphal to replace Karl before the weekend.
Both sources said the announcement could come as soon as
Wednesday afternoon. A news conference will certainly take place by
Friday.
Westphal beat out finalists Bob Hill, Charlotte assistant Paul
Silas and former Sonic assistant Bob Weiss. The Sonics waited until
after the NBA Finals so they could speak with Chicago's Phil
Jackson. Walker, though, lost interest in Jackson on Monday after
learning the Bulls coach wanted more time to decide his future.
Westphal has been Walker's choice all along, and Westphal's
meeting with All-Star point guard Gary Payton on Monday cinched the
deal.
Over lunch in Oakland, Calif., Payton's hometown, they discussed
coaching philosophy and Westphal's ideas about how to run the team.
Payton left satisfied, and that is all Walker needed to hear.
Walker recommended Westphal to team owner Barry Ackerley, who was
impressed by the new coach in a meeting several weeks ago.
Now, Walker needs only to finalize details. He and Westphal are
close to agreement on a two- or three-year deal worth between $1
million and $1.5 million each season.
When Westphal is introduced, his task instantly becomes a
daunting one. Westphal, 47, has to at least match Karl's success.
Karl was essentially fired in technical terms, they allowed his
contract to expire and did not offer a new one despite the
coach's outstanding regular-season record: .719 winning percentage
and an average of 55 victories the past six seasons. But Walker
said the decision to release Karl was because he could no longer
trust the coach on sensitive matters.
Conversely, Walker and Westphal have remained friends since both
played for the Sonics during the 1980-81 season. Walker also is
sold on Westphal's past success with the Phoenix Suns and his
reputation as a player's coach. It helps that Westphal is known to
be very discreet and conservative just like Walker.
Walker is entering the final season of his five-year deal as
president of the Sonics. It makes sense that, given the chance,
Walker would want to have a coach that is a more comfortable fit
with himself.
Sources in Phoenix said that Westphal has not coached since 1996
for one simple reason: He has been waiting for the opportunity to
coach a good team. With Payton and Vin Baker already on hand and
the ability to add a big player in the free-agent market, the
Sonics are poised to again be a contender for the Western
Conference crown.
After spending four years as an assistant coach in Phoenix,
Westphal took over the Suns and led them to the 1993 NBA Finals.
Phoenix lost the title to the Bulls, but won 62 games that year.
Westphal won 56 and 59 games the next two seasons.
An injury-plagued season amid high expectations did in Westpahl.
Phoenix was 14-19 when the Suns fired him. Westphal, though, is
getting a second chance because of his association with Walker and
his established record. He also is a good communicator who can
balance relationships with management and players.
Westphal's system will cater to Payton with uptempo offensive
sets. Westphal will occasionally trap and double-team on defense unlike Karl, whose constant double teams hurt the Sonics in the
playoffs.
Ultimately, without a shot at Jackson, Walker saw Westphal as
the best choice. Hill blew his chances by publicly campaigning for
the job. Silas and Weiss, both former Sonic players, were
considered risks because of unsuccessful stints as head coaches.
The Sonics felt they had to replace a proven winner with a
proven winner, which is why they will name Westphal as their next
head coach.
The surprise isn't that Tiger Woods was walking around the
Olympic Club during a U.S. Open practice round Tuesday with four
uniformed police officers. The surprise was that he couldn't walk
around without them.
People need to get close, to feel the flames. They need an
autograph or a glance or a brush of a sleeve. They need him to make
them a memory or maybe some cash.
Woods is beyond golf, into another realm. Movie stars stay
hidden behind locked gates or tinted glass, emerging only in
virtual form. Woods is out there, among the people. With most
golfers, being among the people is a treat. For Woods, it's an
occupational hazard.
Everyone says Woods' charisma and race have transformed golf
into something more accessible to the people, but that's just the
start of it. Perhaps his most impressive act has been turning golf
into a contact sport.
San Francisco police officer Rich McNaughton drew Tiger duty
Tuesday, and you would think the assignment would be a chance for
an officer to take a break from mediating man's more heinous
endeavors. Instead, he got to see a moving cluster of human
weakness.
For Woods, there is the occasional death threat, which he shrugs
off as would any world-famous 22-year-old. There are kids working
for collectors and collectors working for themselves. In the middle
of it, there are also kids just trying to catch a glimpse of him,
just to say they did.
It's also hard to imagine what could compel grown men to fire
their bodies into a crowd, through children, in search of a name
written on a piece of paper, but it takes all kinds.
The police are with him all the way, every week. Without them,
he would be swallowed up, submerged inside a great clump of
humanity and carried away to a secret location filled with nothing
but felt pens and 8x10 glossies.
In reality, Woods is the main story. He always is. Every
tournament, every round, every hole, nobody in golf is watched more
closely. To the people who tune in only for the majors, Woods is
the show. Every golfer and every spectator is aware of his
presence, even if he does come to the Olympic Club as a prohibitive
underdog.
The official dossier on Woods indicates a style that is not
suitable to winning a U.S. Open. His swashbuckling play is
apparently at odds with the calculated shot-making needed to excel
on a mind-numbing course such as Olympic.
As Jack Nicklaus suggested Tuesday, maybe Woods doesn't yet
deserve to be showered with expectations. Maybe it's not his turn.
Still, it sounds strange to hear that Woods' ability to hit the
ball a long way is actually a disadvantage. Woods doesn't
understand this, either; he seems to find it logical to assume that
if a man can hit the ball a long, long way off the tee, he probably
can throttle it down through club choice and etc. and manage to
hit it a little shorter.
Besides, although the course is the shortest U.S. Open course,
we're not talking about windmills and alligators.
Everyone else might be right. The circumstances might favor the
patient plodding of Mark O'Meara or Tom Lehman, but who would you
rather watch? Woods might finish 11th, but he'll be easy to find.
Just look for the group of grown men using 6-year-olds as ladders.
McCurry used the occasion to voice the administration's
strongest protest to date over the stalled nomination of San
Francisco philanthropist James Hormel as ambassador to Luxembourg.
The nomination to the relatively inconsequential post is emerging
as a high-profile battleground over gay rights.
The comments came a day after Lott told an interviewer that he
believes engaging in gay sex is a sin and a problem to be solved.
The comments were made as part of a taped interview conducted by
conservative talk-show host Armstrong Williams for the America's
Voice network. The Hormel nomination was not mentioned.
Lott declined to personally respond to McCurry's statement or to
discuss whether he is holding up Hormel's nomination because of his
religious convictions.
Critics said Lott's comments reflect the growing influence
within the Congress and the Republican Party of socially
conservative groups such as Gary Bauer's Family Research Council
and James Dobson's Focus on the Family.
In her letter, Birch noted that the American Psychiatric
Association removed homosexuality from its list of mental disorders
in 1973.
Although Lott did not discuss Hormel in the interview, those
working to secure his confirmation viewed the comments as a bad
sign. Hormel, heir to a meat-packing fortune and a regular
Democratic Party contributor, was nominated by Clinton last year to
serve as ambassador to Luxembourg.
The nomination was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. But a small group of Republicans complained about
Hormel's support for gay causes and have prevented the matter from
reaching the floor for a vote.
The senator said she hopes that Lott's attitude toward
homosexuality will not affect his decision on Hormel.
Wellstone has pledged to use parliamentary maneuvers to try to
force a vote on Hormel as soon as the Senate completes work on the
tobacco legislation.
The 49-to-48 vote was a crushing blow to trial attorneys. By
some estimates, a handful of law firms involved in tobacco
litigation had stood to win a staggering $100 billion in legal fees
over 25 years.
The attorneys were expecting to collect contingency fees ranging
from 3 to 30 percent of the settlement. They argued that they are
entitled to such a mammoth payout because they were willing to take
on the tobacco industry years ago when no one else would, and would
have received nothing had they lost.
New York University law professor Lester Brickman calculated
that without the fee cap, the tobacco legislation would have made
billionaires out of 10 lawyers and hundred-millionaires out of 50
more.
Previous efforts to limit legal fees, first to $250 an hour, and
then to $1,000 an hour, were roundly defeated. The highest-paid
lawyers in Washington charge roughly $500 an hour.
The roll-call vote was prolonged by last-minute arm-twisting,
and the fee cap passed only when Gordon Smith, R-Ore., changed his
vote to yes.
The $516 billion tobacco bill, sponsored by Sen. John McCain,
R-Ariz., would raise cigarette taxes by $1.10 a pack, regulate
tobacco marketing and set up a host of new programs covering
everything from illegal drugs to child care.
The bill would also settle 40 state claims against the tobacco
companies to recoup Medicaid costs for smoking-related illnesses.
State attorneys general had hired private attorneys to help them
with the litigation. The attorneys agreed to work on a
contingency-fee basis, as is common in large cases, but that was
before anyone knew the settlement would reach into the financial
stratosphere.
Some law firms were involved in several of the state suits,
standing to collect fees in each one. Six of the 12 law firms
involved in Florida's $11 billion settlement have been disputing a
deal that would provide $280 million in legal fees. The six firms
instead want $2.5 billion, or the 25 percent contingency fee
originally agreed on.
Trial lawyers are among the top donors to the Democratic Party
and one of the most powerful lobbies in Washington. They give less
money to Republicans because of the GOP's support for limits on
product liability, but nonetheless count many Republicans among
their key supporters.
Democrats argued that the attorney fee limits were a subterfuge
intended to kill the tobacco bill, which aims to reduce teen
smoking by increasing the price of cigarettes.
The original tobacco bill would pay tobacco farmers $28 billion
over 25 years if they relinquish their right to grow tobacco. It
would leave the quota system intact.
Indiana Republican Richard Lugar, who has led the drive to end
farm subsidies, pushed an alternative that would pay the farmers
$18 billion over three years and eliminate the quotas.
Under both proposals, most of the money would go to roughly
124,000 farmers; if they receive $28 billion, that averages some
$200,000 per farmer.
Farmers are split on the two alternatives; some support the
Lugar provision because it would allow them to continue growing
tobacco. Prices would fall, but so would costs. Others want the
option of keeping the quotas to maintain high prices if they decide
not to relinquish their quotas.
Boyd defended payments to nonfarmers who own quotas, arguing
that many are widows who lease their quotas to survive.
The outcome of the tobacco bill remains murky after a month of
contentious debate. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott called for a
closed-door meeting of rank and file Republicans Wednesday to
determine strategy.
Key Republicans continue to oppose the legislation because it
constitutes a huge tax increase and creates many new federal
programs. But GOP ranks broke when amendments were approved to cut
taxes for married couples and increase health insurance tax
deductions for the self-employed. If the bill clears the Senate, it
faces stiff opposition in the House, which also could make
substantial changes.
The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes and
muffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined his
vision of the future.
That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from the
crops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,
insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.
For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offering
genetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into their
chromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weed
killers.
Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeans
and a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by a
bacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.
Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were planted
in the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15
percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eating
insects.
Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological and
evolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters. Perhaps
the plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,
like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboring
farmer's fields.
Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them so
hardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.
Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert into
transgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape into
soil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.
Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism? The only
way to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to run
experiments.
Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting up
experiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins can
escape the crops they were meant to help. The results thus far are
proving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.
But the researchers are split over whether the results should be
cause for anxiety. Much of the concern over transgenic crops stems
from the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.
Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,
but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids that
can reproduce.
In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the University
of California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of this
genetic escape.
One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance gene
getting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over a
field.
Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops and
weeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establish
themselves in the wild population.
Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in
1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, could
readily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghum
halepense.
These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as the
johnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.
Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's Riso
National Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered crop
called oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and in
Latin as Brassica napus. Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross between
a weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassica
oleracea, the cabbage plant.
Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered to
survive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (and
weedy neighbor) B. campestris.
Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed the
hybrids together with the original weed, a second generation of
seeds was produced. These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out to
be impervious to Basta as well.
Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring and
discovered that this second generation had produced offspring of
their own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.
But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rape
alongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.
A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,
still be manageable. As one researcher said, you can always destroy
the plants with another herbicide.
The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need for
spraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with the
environmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.
Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actually
comfortable with that prospect because they can make transgenic
crops as well as herbicides.
Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possible
effects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but between
weeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.
Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,
since weed killers are found only on farms. Of far more pressing
concern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance to
insects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.
It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic crops
into wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.
One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape might
be to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relatives
already exist in a given place.
The United States could similarly allow transgenic maize
soybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wild
relatives with which they are sexually compatible here. On the
other hand, squashes and sunflowers do.
There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however. A
desperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic crop
that can breed with local weeds.
And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change that
transgenic crops can bring. Researchers have been developing a
transgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids that
feed on it. The new potato produces a protein called lectin that
ruins the aphids' digestion.
Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato can
reduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half. That's
impressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes to
survive on their own. To fully protect their crop, farmers would
need to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.
But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop Research
Institute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makes
ladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,
ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.
Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can have
harmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn't
think his results are cause for alarm. If ladybugs can also find
aphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, the
plant's harmful effects will be diluted.
In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of their
potential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful in
reducing our dependence on pesticides.
The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes and
muffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined his
vision of the future.
That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from the
crops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,
insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.
For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offering
genetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into their
chromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weed
killers.
Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeans
and a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by a
bacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.
Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were planted
in the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15
percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eating
insects.
Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological and
evolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters. Perhaps
the plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,
like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboring
farmer's fields.
Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them so
hardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.
Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert into
transgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape into
soil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.
Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism? The only
way to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to run
experiments.
Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting up
experiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins can
escape the crops they were meant to help. The results thus far are
proving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.
But the researchers are split over whether the results should be
cause for anxiety. Much of the concern over transgenic crops stems
from the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.
Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,
but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids that
can reproduce.
In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the University
of California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of this
genetic escape.
One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance gene
getting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over a
field.
Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops and
weeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establish
themselves in the wild population.
Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in
1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, could
readily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghum
halepense.
These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as the
johnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.
Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's Riso
National Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered crop
called oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and in
Latin as Brassica napus. Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross between
a weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassica
oleracea, the cabbage plant.
Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered to
survive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (and
weedy neighbor) B. campestris.
Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed the
hybrids together with the original weed, a second generation of
seeds was produced. These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out to
be impervious to Basta as well.
Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring and
discovered that this second generation had produced offspring of
their own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.
But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rape
alongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.
A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,
still be manageable. As one researcher said, you can always destroy
the plants with another herbicide.
The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need for
spraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with the
environmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.
Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actually
comfortable with that prospect because they can make transgenic
crops as well as herbicides.
Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possible
effects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but between
weeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.
Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,
since weed killers are found only on farms. Of far more pressing
concern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance to
insects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.
It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic crops
into wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.
One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape might
be to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relatives
already exist in a given place.
The United States could similarly allow transgenic maize
soybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wild
relatives with which they are sexually compatible here. On the
other hand, squashes and sunflowers do.
There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however. A
desperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic crop
that can breed with local weeds.
And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change that
transgenic crops can bring. Researchers have been developing a
transgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids that
feed on it. The new potato produces a protein called lectin that
ruins the aphids' digestion.
Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato can
reduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half. That's
impressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes to
survive on their own. To fully protect their crop, farmers would
need to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.
But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop Research
Institute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makes
ladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,
ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.
Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can have
harmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn't
think his results are cause for alarm. If ladybugs can also find
aphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, the
plant's harmful effects will be diluted.
In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of their
potential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful in
reducing our dependence on pesticides.
As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth's
gravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its large
solar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwestern
sky.
Fail to spot NEAR? Don't despair. While there won't be any more
interplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew of
other manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.
They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be around
after August. But they're here now during satellite season, when
Earth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunward
extreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in full
sunlight even an hour after sunset.
More often they're used by the military to spy on us even as
we try to spy them.
Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are large
enough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 miles
up) to catch our eye.
Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,
take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18
minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.
How do you know you've spotted a satellite? Elementary, my dear
Westar. If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that moves
in a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes rather
than seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or a
satellite.
Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.
That's because they're usually launched in the same general
direction as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free
1,000-miles-per-hour boost.
Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward or
southward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a few
orbits.
Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellites
stationed 22,300 miles up. Orbits at that distance are
geosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earth
and so appear motionless. Don't even think of finding them; they
are a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelessly
invisible.
Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off if
they're tumbling. And if they're tumbling and most do they're
no longer functioning.
The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, and
the awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discarded
third-stage booster that went with it into orbit.
Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around. After
only a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.
The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes and
muffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined his
vision of the future.
That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from the
crops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,
insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.
For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offering
genetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into their
chromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weed
killers.
Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeans
and a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by a
bacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.
Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were planted
in the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15
percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eating
insects.
Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological and
evolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters. Perhaps
the plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,
like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboring
farmer's fields.
Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them so
hardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.
Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert into
transgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape into
soil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.
Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism? The only
way to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to run
experiments.
Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting up
experiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins can
escape the crops they were meant to help. The results thus far are
proving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.
But the researchers are split over whether the results should be
cause for anxiety. Much of the concern over transgenic crops stems
from the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.
Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,
but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids that
can reproduce.
In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the University
of California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of this
genetic escape.
One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance gene
getting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over a
field.
Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops and
weeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establish
themselves in the wild population.
Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in
1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, could
readily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghum
halepense.
These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as the
johnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.
Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's Riso
National Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered crop
called oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and in
Latin as Brassica napus. Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross between
a weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassica
oleracea, the cabbage plant.
Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered to
survive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (and
weedy neighbor) B. campestris.
Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed the
hybrids together with the original weed, a second generation of
seeds was produced. These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out to
be impervious to Basta as well.
Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring and
discovered that this second generation had produced offspring of
their own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.
But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rape
alongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.
A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,
still be manageable. As one researcher said, you can always destroy
the plants with another herbicide.
The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need for
spraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with the
environmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.
Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actually
comfortable with that prospect because they can make transgenic
crops as well as herbicides.
Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possible
effects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but between
weeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.
Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,
since weed killers are found only on farms. Of far more pressing
concern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance to
insects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.
It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic crops
into wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.
One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape might
be to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relatives
already exist in a given place.
The United States could similarly allow transgenic maize
soybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wild
relatives with which they are sexually compatible here. On the
other hand, squashes and sunflowers do.
There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however. A
desperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic crop
that can breed with local weeds.
And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change that
transgenic crops can bring. Researchers have been developing a
transgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids that
feed on it. The new potato produces a protein called lectin that
ruins the aphids' digestion.
Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato can
reduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half. That's
impressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes to
survive on their own. To fully protect their crop, farmers would
need to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.
But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop Research
Institute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makes
ladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,
ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.
Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can have
harmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn't
think his results are cause for alarm. If ladybugs can also find
aphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, the
plant's harmful effects will be diluted.
In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of their
potential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful in
reducing our dependence on pesticides.
The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes and
muffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined his
vision of the future.
That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from the
crops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,
insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.
For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offering
genetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into their
chromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weed
killers.
Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeans
and a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by a
bacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.
Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were planted
in the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15
percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eating
insects.
Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological and
evolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters. Perhaps
the plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,
like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboring
farmer's fields.
Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them so
hardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.
Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert into
transgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape into
soil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.
Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism? The only
way to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to run
experiments.
Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting up
experiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins can
escape the crops they were meant to help. The results thus far are
proving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.
But the researchers are split over whether the results should be
cause for anxiety. Much of the concern over transgenic crops stems
from the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.
Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,
but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids that
can reproduce.
In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the University
of California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of this
genetic escape.
One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance gene
getting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over a
field.
Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops and
weeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establish
themselves in the wild population.
Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in
1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, could
readily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghum
halepense.
These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as the
johnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.
Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's Riso
National Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered crop
called oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and in
Latin as Brassica napus. Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross between
a weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassica
oleracea, the cabbage plant.
Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered to
survive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (and
weedy neighbor) B. campestris.
Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed the
hybrids together with the original weed, a second generation of
seeds was produced. These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out to
be impervious to Basta as well.
Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring and
discovered that this second generation had produced offspring of
their own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.
But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rape
alongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.
A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,
still be manageable. As one researcher said, you can always destroy
the plants with another herbicide.
The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need for
spraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with the
environmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.
Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actually
comfortable with that prospect because they can make transgenic
crops as well as herbicides.
Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possible
effects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but between
weeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.
Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,
since weed killers are found only on farms. Of far more pressing
concern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance to
insects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.
It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic crops
into wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.
One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape might
be to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relatives
already exist in a given place.
The United States could similarly allow transgenic maize
soybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wild
relatives with which they are sexually compatible here. On the
other hand, squashes and sunflowers do.
There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however. A
desperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic crop
that can breed with local weeds.
And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change that
transgenic crops can bring. Researchers have been developing a
transgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids that
feed on it. The new potato produces a protein called lectin that
ruins the aphids' digestion.
Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato can
reduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half. That's
impressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes to
survive on their own. To fully protect their crop, farmers would
need to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.
But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop Research
Institute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makes
ladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,
ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.
Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can have
harmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn't
think his results are cause for alarm. If ladybugs can also find
aphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, the
plant's harmful effects will be diluted.
In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of their
potential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful in
reducing our dependence on pesticides.
As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth's
gravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its large
solar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwestern
sky.
Fail to spot NEAR? Don't despair. While there won't be any more
interplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew of
other manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.
They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be around
after August. But they're here now during satellite season, when
Earth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunward
extreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in full
sunlight even an hour after sunset.
More often they're used by the military to spy on us even as
we try to spy them.
Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are large
enough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 miles
up) to catch our eye.
Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,
take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18
minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.
How do you know you've spotted a satellite? Elementary, my dear
Westar. If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that moves
in a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes rather
than seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or a
satellite.
Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.
That's because they're usually launched in the same general
direction as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free
1,000-miles-per-hour boost.
Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward or
southward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a few
orbits.
Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellites
stationed 22,300 miles up. Orbits at that distance are
geosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earth
and so appear motionless. Don't even think of finding them; they
are a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelessly
invisible.
Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off if
they're tumbling. And if they're tumbling and most do they're
no longer functioning.
The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, and
the awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discarded
third-stage booster that went with it into orbit.
Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around. After
only a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.
As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth's
gravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its large
solar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwestern
sky.
Fail to spot NEAR? Don't despair. While there won't be any more
interplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew of
other manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.
They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be around
after August. But they're here now during satellite season, when
Earth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunward
extreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in full
sunlight even an hour after sunset.
More often they're used by the military to spy on us even as
we try to spy them.
Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are large
enough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 miles
up) to catch our eye.
Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,
take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18
minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.
How do you know you've spotted a satellite? Elementary, my dear
Westar. If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that moves
in a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes rather
than seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or a
satellite.
Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.
That's because they're usually launched in the same general
direction as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free
1,000-miles-per-hour boost.
Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward or
southward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a few
orbits.
Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellites
stationed 22,300 miles up. Orbits at that distance are
geosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earth
and so appear motionless. Don't even think of finding them; they
are a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelessly
invisible.
Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off if
they're tumbling. And if they're tumbling and most do they're
no longer functioning.
The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, and
the awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discarded
third-stage booster that went with it into orbit.
Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around. After
only a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.
But you don't really have anything to feel guilty about. Your
husband is the one who needs to unclench and join the rest of us
here in the late '90s. For millions of people, online chat has
replaced street-corner chatter and backyard-fence gossip. And, when
you consider that the guy on the other side of the fence may well
be Norman Bates, it's a heck of a lot safer as long as you use some
common sense: Don't give out your phone number or address, and
don't ever meet anybody you chat with in real life unless you do it
in a public place and drag a couple of your friends along. Oh, and
prepare to be disappointed, because in a chat room nobody is who
they say they are, and if they are, well, they're probably lying
about something else. That's OK. You can be whomever you want, too.
Some people might think it's unhealthy to be friends with
strangers from around the world instead of your own neighbors. But,
really now, what do I have in common with a lunatic saxophone
player who puts ceramic chickens and one of those stupid windsocks
in his front yard? I'd much rather talk to Mandy, the 19-year-old
supermodel from Argentina, about quantum physics, geopolitical
economic strategy and interesting things you can do with Jell-O. At
least she says she's a supermodel. For all I know I'm talking with
Margaret Thatcher. Where's the harm?
Anyway, back to your husband being a loon. He's probably blowing
smoke about keeping track of your extracurricular typing. Maybe if
he's got way too much time on his hands, he's actually figured out
a way to make you think he knows all and sees all. For instance, if
you chat on Yahoo! or any other place where you use your browser,
the chat site not only shows up in your history folder, there's a
good chance some of the pages are in the browser cache. All you
have to do is dump your temporary Internet files to get rid of the
evidence.
Or, maybe you're using some sort of a chat program that can log
your conversations, and your paranoid little hubby has switched
that feature on and forgotten to tell you about it. Could be he's
truly insane and has some sort of program running on your computer
that records all your keystrokes and commands. The problem is not
whether it's possible for him to do it, it's that he feels like he
has to do it at all, or at least intimidate you into feeling like
he can.
Now, if anybody out there knows a way that people can actually
track your chats the way this guy claims to, please let me know and
I'll pass it along. Nobody should be able to get away with that.
Besides, I'd hate it if my recipe for Hot Jell-O Surprise got out.
(Noted computerologist Dr. Emilio Bombay offers occasionally
accurate advice about most things electronic. He can be reached on
Internet at drbombay(at)star-telegram.com; via snail-mail at Fort
Worth Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth 76101; or fax: (817)
390-7257. His real name is Michael Gerst, editorial systems manager
for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Visit the Star-Telegram's online
services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)
ATLANTA There's something a little silly about turning to your
PC for advice about exercise. After all, if you didn't spend so
danged much time sitting at the keyboard, cruising the Web and
sending e-mail, you'd get outside more.
But since the PC and the Internet are facts of life now, you
might as well use some of the resources of the World Wide Web to
find ways to get in shape.
.tyrell.net/(tilde)fitness/ and zap on over to World Fitness
Online. This is a good place to start, because you'll probably
agree with the philosophy here. The notion, according to this page,
is:
The practical nature of this page also extends to the sort of
features you'll find. If you want to get in shape without spending
a lot of money, you'll be able to follow the directions here for
constructing some of your own exercise equipment, including a
wooden stair device. It isn't as fancy as the step machines you'll
find in the gym, but you won't need to spend your hard-earned money
to get one. And, since you'll build the wooden stepper yourself,
you'll get your first exercise just from constructing it.
Then, as you'd expect, there are sections that offer exercise
advice, as well as a forum where you can leave questions for the
exercise experts who hang around this site.
/fitnesspartner/. You already know that exercise alone isn't
enough for good personal fitness, so the emphasis of this site on
diet and eating the right foods will fit right in with your fitness
plan.
You'll also get the sometimes-depressing news here of how many
calories you're burning while engaged in various exercise
activities. That's because there's a high-tech calculator that lets
you enter the information about your exercise program and get a
fairly accurate indication of the calories you burn.
You probably know all about personal trainers. That's the rage
now at the gym. These folks help you set up an exercise plan and
health goals based on your age, weight, physical condition and
personal goals. Well, now it's time for you to meet a virtual
personal trainer that can do almost the same thing. Just head for a
site called The Fitness Zone: Fitness Profile at http://www
You'll fill out the on-screen form with the same kind of
information you'd give a real-world personal trainer and, in just
seconds, get an exercise profile and an assessment of your current
fitness level. You'll need to know your blood pressure to fill out
the form, but you should know that anyway, since a visit to your
physician is strongly recommended before starting any new exercise
plan.
Since -- right or wrong -- most of us associate a fitness plan
with losing weight, you'll want to stop by a site called Shape Up
America at http://www.shapeup
Finally, to get started on your fitness program, perform this
low-stress exercise. Reach out with your right finger, turn off
your computer and take a walk.
This Windows computer is not much bigger than a computer
magazine. The bright, sharp, 10.4-inch active-matrix screen shares
the 800 by 600 pixel resolution of the IBM 560 line, but its
smaller size gives it a better chance of being useful in coach
class seats.
The price for all this miniaturization is a surprisingly low
$2,000, but a slightly fancier model, the VAIO 505GX, is scheduled
to be introduced June 23 at the PC Expo show at the Jacob K. Javits
Convention Center. It increases the processor speed to 266
megahertz and adds a fast IEEE 1394 port that few users will ever
need. Those enhancements do not seem worth the extra $700 Sony will
exact for them.
Both machines will officially be available July 24. The review
units I tried came with Windows 98 preinstalled, but lacked manuals
and the very last of their software tweaks and had some problems
suspending themselves and awakening where they left off.
Nonetheless, they came as close to being portable dream machines as
any I have ever used.
The big question mark with a little machine is its keyboard. At
just under 90 percent of normal width, this one is serviceable but
not without annoyances. The right shift key is undersized, the top
row keys, including delete, are downright tiny, and the layout
takes getting used to. While you master it, you will probably be
glad for the oversized backspace key. Though the palm rest is
comfortable and helps counteract the screen's tendency to tilt the
unit backward when you use it in your lap, the keyboard lacks the
silken feel of IBM 560s.
I strongly prefer pointing sticks to the touchpads that Sony
favors, but I was able to adjust this one to be a bit less twitchy
than some I have tried. On one unit the left button was excessively
stiff and unresponsive, so I did my clicking by tapping my finger
on the pad. A compartment at the edge of the screen holds a stylus;
in collaboration with a program called Scribblepad, it lets you
write or draw on the touchpad and see the results on the screen.
That might be a lifesaver if you need to sign a digital document
digitally, but I found it tricky to use. An unlimited undo feature
helps.
The hard disk's sluggishness sometimes delays keyboard response.
To speed things up, I would seriously consider adding an extra 32
megabytes of random access memory for about $75. The current
maximum RAM total is 64 megabytes; newer forms of memory expected
later this year will extend that limit to 96.
A monaural speaker, a headphone jack, a microphone (and separate
input), an infrared port and a Universal Serial Bus port are all
built in. A port replicator is included and offers the other
standard connectors printer, serial, keyboard, mouse and monitor but dangles from the computer, connected only by a cable. The
unit also comes with an outboard floppy disk drive.
A matching CD-ROM player costs about $300. It uses a PC Card to
connect, but in a rare design gaffe, it requires AC power and
cannot use the same power adapter as the computer. One of the
portable PC Card CD-ROM drives that can run on batteries would be a
better choice. Clever stereo speakers that cost about $100 a pair
and weigh about an ounce each snap on and off the edges of the
screen like ears without requiring cables. They improve the sound,
but the volume is low and their output will not be confused with
high fidelity.
The computer's battery life is surprisingly good. In my tests,
the purple lithium-ion cylinder that comes with the unit lasts
about two hours at the maximum performance setting if you avoid
using the hard disk much and about an hour more if you let the
power management software reduce screen brightness and slow things
down. Frequent fliers will want the double-cylinder auxiliary
battery that adds about five ounces to the machine's total weight
but lasts significantly longer and helps balance the unit by
sticking out a bit at the back. Its only drawback is that it costs
about $300.
A button beside the power switch can be programmed to run any of
three programs of your choosing whenever you press it alone or in
combination with the Alt or Control keys. A flip-out door turns
into a K56flex modem that accepts a standard phone jack,
eliminating the need for special connectors. Software should allow
it to be upgraded to the newer V.90 standard at no charge.
What I hope will not become standard is Sony's practice of
making the warranty last just 90 days unless you register the
machine to get nine months more. Batteries are warranted for a
measly 30 days, period.
In the coming months, lightweight computers ranging from cheaper
Windows CE machines to pricier machines with bigger screens and
their own distinctive looks will vie for the spotlight. But for the
moment the VAIO 505G is one of the best deals around. And if you
want to attract attention with your computer, there may be no
better way than to flaunt Sony's skinny lavender dandy.
The government's antitrust battle against Microsoft Corp. has
not tarnished the company's reputation as an outstanding business
that makes high-quality products. But according to the latest New
York Times/CBS News poll, a majority of Americans do think that
Microsoft is a monopoly and that the Justice Department should
continue to investigate the company and its business practices.
Both in a nationwide telephone poll last week and in follow-up
interviews, people again and again expressed deep admiration for
the accomplishments of Microsoft and Bill Gates, the company's
famous co-founder and chairman. Yet the same people repeatedly said
there was an important role for the government to play to make sure
that fair play was maintained in the high-technology economy that
Microsoft has come to symbolize.
In the court of public opinion, the burden of proof clearly
rests on the side of the government to show that Microsoft has done
anything illegal. Fifty-five percent of Americans surveyed said
that they had a favorable opinion of Microsoft, while only 15
percent held an unfavorable opinion. (The remaining 30 percent had
no opinion on the matter.) Most people said their opinion of
Microsoft had not changed as a result of the Justice Department's
investigation.
Even the 60 percent of people who say the Justice Department
should continue to investigate Microsoft are not necessarily
convinced that the government was justified in bringing a major
antitrust case against the company last month.
The Justice Department has contended that Microsoft has used
unfair practices to defend its monopoly in the market for
personal-computer operating-system software, the program that
controls the basic operations of a computer, and to try to gain an
edge in the new markets of Internet software and commerce.
Public opinion, to be sure, plays no direct role in antitrust
policy. Yet it is inevitably a consideration when bringing a major
case like the suit against Microsoft. Congress controls the Justice
Department's budget, and a big case that is seen as too far out of
step with public opinion could bring pressure from Congress.
So when the Microsoft suit was announced in Washington on May
18, Attorney General Janet Reno appeared before a battery of
television cameras.
Public opinion, he added, also sets the limits of government
action. The Justice Department, for example, has not moved to break
up the big software company, as was done with the Bell System in
1984 and as some industry analysts have advocated in the Microsoft
case.
People are split almost evenly on whether the government did the
right thing in filing suit against Microsoft, with 35 percent
saying it was right and 27 percent saying it was a mistake. The
remaining 38 percent were undecided or were not aware of the case.
People who said the investigation should continue but thought
the Justice Department was mistaken in filing the antitrust suit
tended to view the appropriate role for government as more a
referee than a prosecutor. They also regarded some of what they had
heard of Microsoft's aggressive business practices as part of the
rough-and-tumble of capitalism.
The Times/CBS poll does illustrate the high regard that most
Americans have for Microsoft and for Gates. Nearly five times as
many people have a favorable opinion of Gates as have an
unfavorable opinion 39 percent to 8 percent, with the rest
undecided or unfamiliar with Gates. The favorable-unfavorable split
for President Clinton in the same poll is much more evenly divided:
at 45 percent favorable, 37 percent unfavorable and the rest
undecided.
In the case of Microsoft, familiarity breeds respect or at
least familiarity with its products does. On almost every Microsoft
question asked in the poll, the more that people used computers,
the more pro-Microsoft their answers were. For example, among
people who not only use computers but have installed software on
their own, 78 percent had a favorable opinion of Microsoft compared
with 55 percent of all those questioned for the poll.
Most Americans are technological optimists, according to the
Times/CBS poll, with 59 percent saying that computers solve more
problems than they create, while 29 percent say they create more
problems than they solve. Among computer users, 71 percent see the
machines as solving more problems than they create. And two-thirds
of Americans now use a computer either at home or at work,
according to the survey.
Still, many Americans appear to be embracing the information age
tentatively, if not fearfully. More than half of all computer
users, 52 percent, say they have never installed a software program a basic step in computing. While technology enthusiasts never
tire of extolling the virtues of computers as personalized tools of
empowerment, the Times/CBS poll suggests that a large share of the
computer-using public has no interest in tailoring their machines
or changing them.
The portrait of many people as passive recipients of computer
technology may also cast some doubt on one of Microsoft's arguments
in its dispute with the government. The Justice Department,
Microsoft says, has overstated the advantage the company enjoys
because the main desktop screen that users see when they turn on
their machines is Microsoft's Windows. That first screen can be
easily changed or modified, Microsoft insists.
Microsoft's market power is viewed with both ambivalence and
pragmatism, according to the Times/CBS poll. Monopoly, it seems, is
no longer regarded as an economic evil. A majority of those
questioned say Microsoft is a monopoly a label Microsoft itself
shuns but 77 percent also say Microsoft makes high-quality
products. And 58 percent of computer users and 67 percent of people
who have installed software themselves consider Microsoft's
dominant role in the software business to be good for consumers.
A certain ambivalence about big, successful companies, and what
the government's role should be in policing them, has been a theme
of American public opinion for decades, analysts say.
Consider Christopher Rogers, a 25-year-old medical student in
Philadelphia, who seems little concerned by the dominance of
Microsoft's Windows operating system.
Still, Rogers, like others polled, is skeptical about whether
consumers would benefit if Microsoft were to control the market for
software used for browsing the Internet a market that is a focus
of the Justice Department's case. Only 8 percent of those polled
said it would be a good thing if Microsoft dominated the browser
market, 41 percent said it would be bad, 39 percent said it would
make no difference and 12 percent had no opinion.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected
by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active
residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a
complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed
and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was
designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the
survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size
and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for
variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race,
age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such
samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in
either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out
all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger.
For example, for the 315 most sophisticated computer users in the
sample it is plus or minus six percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of
conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources
of error into the poll. Variations in the wording or order of
questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.
This week the Lotus Development Corp. will begin shipping the
Smart Suite Millennium Edition, which includes the latest version
of the 1-2-3 spreadsheet program, word processing, data base,
graphics and other productivity software. The question is does
anyone care.
Battered by the relentless onslaught of Microsoft, Lotus has
seen its market share in desktop software dwindle so low that many
analysts no longer bother to track it. Although Smart Suite has
often been praised by reviewers and users as a cleaner,
less-cluttered alternative to Microsoft's Office 97, Microsoft's
ability to tie the applications to the Windows operating system has
proved an unbeatable advantage.
Smart Suite is to be shipped on Wednesday at a suggested retail
price of $399; the upgrade price for users of older Lotus or
competing programs is $149. In addition to 1-2-3, Smart Suite
includes the Word Pro word processor, Freelance Graphics
presentation application, Approach data base, Organizer time and
contact manager and Screencam multimedia tool. It also includes
Lotus Mail e-mail as well as both the Netscape Navigator 4.0 and
Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0 browsers.
Sales of the original IBM personal computer were driven by Lotus
1-2-3, which combined an accountant's spreadsheet with a program
that could turn the rows of numbers into charts and graphs. But
Lotus stumbled as the PC evolved. It was late to market with a
version of 1-2-3 for the Apple Macintosh, allowing Microsoft Excel
to grab that market; late again when Microsoft Windows took off,
ceding the PC itself to Excel, and late again when the market
turned to the bundles of applications called suites. IBM acquired a
weakened Lotus in June 1995.
While Lotus 1-2-3 was once the world's leading software program,
Smart Suite is a distant third behind Office 97 and Corel Corp.'s
Wordperfect Suite, said Ann Stephens, an analyst with PC Data.
Measured in units, Lotus' retail market share is 3.7 percent,
behind Corel's 26.5 percent and Microsoft's nearly 70 percent;
Lotus' corporate market share is 2 percent, behind Corel at 2.6
percent and Microsoft with more than 95 percent. In dollar terms,
Lotus has 2.4 percent of the retail and 2.2 percent of the
corporate markets.
Jeffrey Papows, president and chief executive at Lotus, says
Smart Suite's global market share is higher than these figures
indicate, about 7 percent in dollars, 22 to 24 percent in units,
and higher than Corel's share. He said 7 percent of a $5 billion
market was still worth pursuing, and a profitable business. But he
conceded that Smart Suite had been battered by Office 97, largely
because Microsoft could offer it to PC makers along with the
Windows operating system at terms no one could refuse.
Reviewers have long praised Smart Suite's superior integration
with Notes, Lotus' popular groupware program, which allows several
users to collaborate on documents and other projects across a
network. The new release adds stronger support for Domino, which
extends Notes to the World Wide Web for e-mail and other functions.
It also adds tools that enable users to create Web sites without
programming, and it incorporates IBM's voice-recognition
technology.
Lotus counts International Paper, Abbott Laboratories and Mars
among major companies using Smart Suite. Analysts say many
companies still use 1-2-3 even if they have adopted Microsoft
Office for word processing and graphics.
The AFA Web site ran into trouble with Cyber Patrol because
researchers at the company decided it met the filter's definition
of intolerance, which includes discrimination based on sexual
orientation.
Smith concedes that these words are strong stuff. But, he says,
they are delivered in the context of the group's belief that God
loves all and are not akin to Neo-Nazi or Ku Klux Klan-type
virulence.
Association officials insist that their viewpoint is a
deeply-held religious conviction that does not equate to preaching
hatred of homosexuals.
Cyber Patrol bans up to 12 categories of material considered
inappropriate for the typical 12-year-old surfing without an adult,
from gambling to cult Web sites. But customers can pick and choose
which categories to block, as well as unlock access to individual
sites they consider acceptable, according to Susan Getgood,
spokeswoman for The Learning Company Inc., the Cambridge, Mass.
educational software firm that makes Cyber Patrol.
And, she notes, in Cyber Patrol's case online publishers who
believe their sites have been unfairly blocked can take the route
of the AFA and appeal the decision to an independent panel that
includes educators, parents and representatives of groups as
diverse as the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and the
conservative group, Morality in Media.
Supporters of filters respond that the flap in no way undermines
their belief in the necessity of the products to help parents
shield the young from what they view as pernicious influences
online.
Meadows is executive director of The Presidio Trust, the
quasi-public group charged with converting the former Army base
into a facility for a variety of civilian uses.
Exactly who gets what already has become a controversy. But the
arguments so far have overlooked a hidden asset one that Meadows
thinks can fuel the Presidio's economic engine.
In the Internet age, having fiber in the ground is like a
building site being wired for electricity or plumbed for water and
sewage.
Meadows plans to make this fiber loop the nerve center of a web
of multimedia, video and Internet-based enterprises.One industry he
hopes to kick-start is the creation of distance-learning broadcast
centers for colleges.
He also intends to plug all 1,600 housing units on the Presidio
into this fiber net, so folks at home will be able to hold
video-conferences with their offices or with other Presidio
families.
This isn't just some bureaucratic dream. Before he came to the
Presidio, Meadows managed the conversion of Denver's Lowry Air
Force Base. There, he created a fiber town with 4,000 wired homes
and many multimedia enterprises.
Meadows expects to encounter envy and opposition from those not
lucky enough to land in this high-tech Garden of Eden.
That's the gist of a new survey conducted by the Institute for
the New California, a public policy group in Walnut Creek. The INC
reached this conclusion after polling a scientific sample of
adults.
The Institute defined wired workers as wage earners who worked
outside the home, used network-connected PCs on the job, and were
relatively free to organize their own workdays.
Pollster Mike Hais said the survey respondents who fit this
definition identified themselves as independents, Republicans and
Democrats, in that order.
Coincidence or not: The Institute was co-founded by Morley
Winograd, a former Bell executive who now serves as senior policy
adviser to Gore.
 Bookmark it! CMP, the Long Island-based trade-press
publisher, soon will unveil a new Web site that makes it easier to
find electronics industry information.
CMP has taken the contents of dozens of its pubs among them EE
Times and Windows magazine and made it accessible from a single
page. It combines a search engine with a Yahoo-like set of
categories that point to sub-topics like semiconductors, PCs,
finance, etc.
Other Web sites, notably Cnet and ZDNet, put tons of great
tech-type info online. But I think CMP has a better way to let
people quickly zero in on just what they want.
The site won't be open to the public until Monday, but Chronicle
readers can get a peek today at www.cmpnet.com/search.
 Questionable taste? If it's such a boom time in Silicon
Valley, why did a recent survey of car dealers find that the
lowball Ford Taurus was the top-selling car in Santa Clara County
last year, while the Mercedes-Benz E-class was 15th on the list?
Got a tip, gripe or brainstorm? Tom Abate wants to hear it by
phone (650-961-2689), fax (650-961-5023) or e-mail (abate(at
sign)sfgate.com).
The Federal Communications Commission decided Friday to reduce
by more than 40 percent the budget of a plan to connect schools and
libraries to the Internet.
Under bipartisan pressure from members of Congress who
maintained that the program would increase long-distance telephone
rates, the commission agreed to trim the program. All three of the
Democrats on the commission voted in favor of the plan, while the
two Republicans opposed it.
Under the new plan, $1.275 billion will be raised for the
program this year, down from an original maximum of $2.25 billion.
Long-distance carriers are required to provide most of the money.
About 30,000 schools and libraries have applied for about $2.02
billion from the program. Under the plan approved Friday, fewer
than two-thirds of those requests will be granted, which will skew
the distribution of money toward the poorest school systems.
The commission has already raised $625 million for the program.
Under the plan approved Friday, it will raise another $650 million
between July 1 and the end of the year.
Originally a relatively obscure offshoot of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, the schools and libraries program
became the subject of a hard-fought political debate last week when
four powerful members of Congress urged the commission to cut off
its funding altogether.
ATT Corp. and MCI Communications Corp., the two biggest
long-distance carriers, have said in recent months that they
intended to pass the cost of their contributions to the program on
to consumers.
That set off a blast of protest on Capitol Hill, aimed at the
FCC and in particular at the commission's chairman, William
Kennard. Kennard had already angered many members of Congress by
pushing for free air time for political candidates.
Relations between the commission and Congress have been testy
for years. The two institutions have been battling over the proper
implementation of the Telecommunications Act, which was meant to
deregulate many elements of the communications market.
The fight over the schools and libraries program has become
perhaps the commission's most important battle. The program enjoys
the favor of Vice President Al Gore, who has taken particular
interest in the Internet and other forms of advanced technology.
Opponents of the program contend that the FCC illegally exceeded
its authority when it established a quasi-independent corporation
to disburse money to libraries and schools. On Friday the
commission agreed to merge the schools and libraries corporation
into the organization that administers subsidies to limit phone
rates in rural areas.
Nowhere is the expansion more evident than at the Electronic
Entertainment Exposition, a trade show also known as E3 that
features all the newest and latest game gear. This year, as last,
it was held at the Georgia World Congress Center in Atlanta the
last weekend in May. About 40,000 people attended during its
four-day run.
The exhibit filled more than 35 football fields of space. If the
show is any indication, it looks like the coming year will bring
more of the same in computer games, an increase of the CD-like
disks called DVD that holds more than CDs, and more talking toys
that are built around computer chips.
My Interactive Pooh from Mattel is one of them. Pooh joins
Barney and Barbie on the talk circuit. He sings more than two dozen
songs and plays about a dozen games. By linking him to the
computer, Pooh can be programmed to say the child's name, and other
features can be customized.
Mattel is also expanding on its Barbie line with Barbie's Photo
Designer Digital Color Camera. The digital camera stores only six
photos at a time, which can be connected to a computer so they can
be saved for future use. Once in the computer, the child can use
the photos in other projects or with Barbie programs to make
postcards.
Mindscape will also expand on the National Geographic magazine
theme this fall when it publishes National Geographic Maps, a
four-CD collection of every fold-out map published in National
Geographic. The company will also join the trip-planning arena in
the fall with the release of National Geographic Trip Planner
Deluxe for planning trips in the U.S. and Canada.
Well-known learning software titles for children and young
adults from Davidson Associates won't be sold under the Davidson
name any more. The products, which include the JumpStart Learning
System, the Blaster Learning System and Fisher-Price titles, will
be sold under the Knowledge Adventure brand.
That announcement came at E3, along with another from the
company on its new assessment technology feature being incorporated
into its JumpStart Learning System programs. Before using the
software, kids will take an assessment test so the program can
determine where the child needs the most help. Then the program
will begin at the most appropriate level for that child.
The new test will be included in soon-to-be released revamped
titles, JumpStart Preschool and JumpStart 1st Grade. It will also
be in a new title, JumpStart Adventures 6th Grade. The produces are
expected to be available in late summer or early fall. The price
will be in the $30 range.
(Lonnie Brown is associate editor of The Ledger in Lakeland,
Fla. He can be reached by e-mail at LonnieB001(AT)aol.com. An
archive of his recent computer columns is on the Internet at
http://www.theledger.com/data.htm.)
For that, you'll need software tools with a higher level of
sophistication. If you're serious about working with images and are
willing to spend some time learning the intricacies of these
programs, you can achieve some spectacular results.
Here's a look at two software programs at two ends of the price
spectrum, and a low-cost drawing tablet you can use with either
one:
 Paint Shop Pro 5.0, $99, Jasc Software: If you've used
consumer software to work with images such as Adobe PhotoDeluxe
or Microsoft's PictureIt! and have been disappointed with the
lack of flexibility or power, Paint Shop Pro is worth considering.
And doing so is a snap. A fully functional version is available
for downloading from Jasc's Web site at www.jasc.com. Grab it, try
it, and if you decide to use it you can get a registration key, or
order the disk and accompanying manual online.
Paint Shop Pro has long been considered an alternative to the
pricier Photoshop, but it's always been a step behind in
capabilities. Version 4.0, for example, lacked the ability to do
layers, a feature that lets you lay one image on top of another.
You can change one layer without affecting the rest of the image, a
powerful tool when combining pictures or going after special
effects.
On the other hand, Paint Shop Pro has been easier to use than
Photoshop, and its developers tried to automate tasks wherever they
could. For example, version 4.0 of Paint Shop Pro could
automatically create a shadow effect, something that had to be done
manually in Photoshop.
This new version, though, brings Paint Shop Pro to near-parity
with Photoshop. It now includes the ability to do layers, albeit
with a simpler system than Photoshop.
It also borrows from other programs, such as MetaTools' Fractal
Design Painter. It has nozzles that let you paint with specific
objects. For example, you can lay down a row of dice, cars,
airplanes, stars or any one of several dozen icons just by clicking
and dragging with your mouse. You can add others, too.
Version 5.0 is not a radical departure over 4.0. Instead,
developers have concentrated on making Photoshop which has a
notoriously steep learning curve easier to use. Many common
tasks, such as the aforementioned shadow creation, have finally
been automated.
Adobe has tweaked some of the commonly used tools in Photoshop
to make them friendlier. For example, artists who wanted to
indicate the edge of an object in an image had to painstakingly
draw around those edges. Now, the pencil and lasso tools are
magnetic the program itself senses where the edges are and clings
to them.
 Pablo, $99, KidBoard: When it comes time to draw something,
nothing beats a pen and paper. But most computer users who aren't
professional artists still struggle with a mouse, a distinctly
clunky drawing device.
Computer drawing tablets have been on the market for years, but
generally they've been priced out of reach of many consumers. Pablo
is the first quality drawing tablet aimed squarely at the home
market.
Its drawing area is decently sized, at about 8 inches by 6
inches. An attached overlay of plastic lets you put images
underneath for tracing.
The stylus can be attached by a cord on either side of the
table, making it comfortable for either right- or left-handers.
Using Pablo is simple. Just press a button on the stylus to
activate it. With art programs designed to work with a tablet and
all the titles mentioned here will the effects are similar to
using a real pen, brush or marker. The longer and harder you press
down, the darker and more pronounced the image will be on the
screen.
If you are used to drawing with a mouse, it may take a while to
get the hang of drawing on a tablet and getting the results you
want. But once you master Pablo, it will be difficult to go back.
 Dwight Silverman can receive electronic mail via the Internet.
Address your comments and questions to
dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000 and enter
access code 1001. XXXX END OF STORY
Q: I do a great deal of PowerPoint presentations and I have to
use an overhead projector. A few years back I purchased a PC-to-TV
converter. The problem with this was that it would only handle the
lowest-resolution graphics available. Do you know of any way I can
use my PC and a TV as a monitor that will display the high level of
graphics that PowerPoint needs to be effective?
A: There are several graphics cards available now that feature
what's called TV-out. They will connect to either a monitor or a
TV, and the TV function is designed specifically for presentations.
Canada-based ATI Technologies is the most prolific manufacturer
of these kinds of cards. At the high end is its All-in-Wonder and
All-in-Wonder Pro, two video boards that include 2-D and 3-D
graphics acceleration with a TV tuner and TV-out capabilities. They
start at about $170 and go up to $350, depending on the model and
the amount of memory installed.
ATI also makes a low-end product, the 3D Xpression, with
PC-to-TV capabilities, that sells for about $120.
STB Systems of Richardson also makes a TV-out version of its
popular Velocity 128 2-D/3-D accelerator. It sells for about $150.
Finally, if you're interested in notebook computers with TV-out
capability, take a look at Compaq Computer Corp.'s Armada 4200
series.
Be sure when you're shopping for any kind of PC-to-TV device
that you get one compatible with the television standards for the
countries you travel to. In the United States, for example, you'll
want one that's NTSC-compatible.
A: BIOS stands for Basic Input Output System, and it controls
the ground-level functions of a personal computer. For example,
when your PC boots up, it's the BIOS that begins the process that
pulls in the operating system.
The BIOS controls such basic things as screen display, the
keyboard, drives and serial ports. Other system components, both
hardware and software, work with the BIOS to improve the function
of these essential parts.
You can change some of the functions of your BIOS. Check the
manual that came with your computer to see how to enter the BIOS
setup screen. In most cases, you'll need to hit a key just as your
system starts the boot process. On computers that use American
Megatrends BIOSes, for example, you hit the DEL key.
It's a good idea to write down the settings in your BIOS before
you make any changes. Altering the BIOS is not kid stuff if you
don't know what you're doing, then don't do it.
However, it's possible that you will have to replace the BIOS
chip itself in some older computers. And in much older systems, you
may not be able to make any changes at all.
 Got a question about your computer? Dwight Silverman can receive
electronic mail via the Internet. Address your comments and
questions to dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000
and enter access code 1001. XXXX END OF STORY
Regular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy. Even
when I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away on
its own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading some
free software.
Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Off
switch more frequently than usual. It's the time of year for
sudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toast
microcircuitry into pumpernickel.
I love lightning; computers hate it. A near-direct hit 13 years
ago wrecked the first computer I ever owned. Yes, I was using a
surge suppressor. Good thing too the surge-box maker picked up
the $600 repair tab.
That's why you install one of these devices insurance. Surge
suppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection from
electrical unpleasantness. And if they don't work, you won't have
to pay for the damage to your hardware.
A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.
Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noise
from electric motors. That can alter the standard 60-hertz
frequency that your computer is designed for. There are power sags
caused by other devices starting up if your lights flicker when
the fridge starts up, you know what I mean. There are brownouts longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days when
electric demand is greater than the utility can supply. And of
course the power can die altogether.
Even so, Hester favors some extra protection. For most people,
that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricity
going to your computer.
But be sure you're using it properly. That means that every
single electrical device connected to your computer should be
hooked up to the suppressor. Skip just one of them the printer,
say and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine. Your
phone line can carry surges right into your modem. Nowadays, surge
boxes nearly always include phone line protection. Use it. And if
your surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better than
an extension cord. So plug into a proper three-prong outlet. The
better surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tell
you if they're grounded.
A good suppressor should have been tested by Underwriters
Laboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it's
hit by a 6,000-volt power spike. This is called the UL 1449 rating be sure yours meets this standard. Of course you should buy a
suppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages to
your computer. But that doesn't mean the device itself will last a
lifetime. Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses its
protective power after a few years. It makes sense to buy new every
half-decade or so.
Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout. For that,
you need an uninterruptible power supply. Once only used in
businesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.
American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me their
BackUPS Office product for a tryout. It looks like an overgrown
surge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid battery
inside, but it gets the job done. I pulled the plug on my home PC
by way of a test. The battery drove the computer with two hard
drives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutes
before it gave up the ghost. That was plenty of time to do a safe
shutdown. The BackUPS Office sells for around $125. And there are
more expensive battery backup devices that come with software
that'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.
Regular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy. Even
when I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away on
its own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading some
free software.
Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Off
switch more frequently than usual. It's the time of year for
sudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toast
microcircuitry into pumpernickel.
I love lightning; computers hate it. A near-direct hit 13 years
ago wrecked the first computer I ever owned. Yes, I was using a
surge suppressor. Good thing too the surge-box maker picked up
the $600 repair tab.
That's why you install one of these devices insurance. Surge
suppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection from
electrical unpleasantness. And if they don't work, you won't have
to pay for the damage to your hardware.
A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.
Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noise
from electric motors. That can alter the standard 60-hertz
frequency that your computer is designed for. There are power sags
caused by other devices starting up if your lights flicker when
the fridge starts up, you know what I mean. There are brownouts longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days when
electric demand is greater than the utility can supply. And of
course the power can die altogether.
Even so, Hester favors some extra protection. For most people,
that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricity
going to your computer.
But be sure you're using it properly. That means that every
single electrical device connected to your computer should be
hooked up to the suppressor. Skip just one of them the printer,
say and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine. Your
phone line can carry surges right into your modem. Nowadays, surge
boxes nearly always include phone line protection. Use it. And if
your surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better than
an extension cord. So plug into a proper three-prong outlet. The
better surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tell
you if they're grounded.
A good suppressor should have been tested by Underwriters
Laboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it's
hit by a 6,000-volt power spike. This is called the UL 1449 rating be sure yours meets this standard. Of course you should buy a
suppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages to
your computer. But that doesn't mean the device itself will last a
lifetime. Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses its
protective power after a few years. It makes sense to buy new every
half-decade or so.
Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout. For that,
you need an uninterruptible power supply. Once only used in
businesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.
American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me their
BackUPS Office product for a tryout. It looks like an overgrown
surge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid battery
inside, but it gets the job done. I pulled the plug on my home PC
by way of a test. The battery drove the computer with two hard
drives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutes
before it gave up the ghost. That was plenty of time to do a safe
shutdown. The BackUPS Office sells for around $125. And there are
more expensive battery backup devices that come with software
that'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.
ATLANTA -- Technology is changing so rapidly, economist George
Gilder said Thursday, people buying the latest in personal
computers are still like cavemen tapping away in the dark.
Instead of boxes sitting on desktops, the personal computer of
tomorrow say, five years from now will be as small as
palm-sized cellular phones, but far more powerful and versatile
than today's PCs.
At least that's the view of Gilder, a Reagan-era economist
turned technology guru who spoke at Thursday's closing session of
Supercomm. The telecommunications and information conference at the
Georgia World Congress Center is scheduled to return to Atlanta
June 6-10, 1999.
Operating with the technology of a cellular phone, the
next-generation personal computers will have wireless Internet
access, Gilder said. Thus, even without access to a phone line,
people will be able to transmit electronic mail, read newspapers
and search the Web.
People will be able to write as they drive, using speech
recognition to talk into their computers rather than type on a
keyboard, Gilder said. Those who want to work at home or the office
can plug in their machines to electrical sockets and hook them up
to full-sized monitors.
These evolving technologies are available, for instance, as
mapping and speech-recognition software. But Gilder predicted
they'll become more reliable and affordable as manufacturers pump
billions of dollars into the potentially lucrative technologies.
Experts predict the Internet will increasingly perform those
tasks, with competition driving down costs for the rising number of
Internet users. One of the biggest roadblocks, Gilder said, is
federal regulations of emerging technologies.
Rising to prominence as a supply-side economist during the
Reagan presidency, Gilder is an unabashed critic of federal
intervention in capitalism. For instance, he lambasted the recent
lawsuits by the U.S. Justice Department against software giant
Microsoft and by the Federal Trade Commission against chip maker
Intel.
The team was hoping to exceed the largest previous study, which
looked at 400 people, Cooper said. But it was overwhelmed by the
response.
Of the respondents to the poll, roughly 8 percent could be
qualified as cybersex compulsives, using sexual sites more than 10
hours a week and reporting that their use distressed them or
interfered with their relationships. Cooper said 3 percent to 6
percent of the general population engages in compulsive sexual
behavior.
Cooper cited in his report statistics gathered by Relevant
Knowledge, a Web traffic-tracking company, that found 9.6 million
users, or 15 percent of all Web users, logged on to the 10 most
popular sexual sites in April.
For people predisposed to sexual compulsivity, the accessibility
and anonymity of the Internet can make it easier to fall into
destructive behavior, he said.
But those same traits of cyberspace may help people feel more
comfortable exploring erotic pursuits there. That may be why a
growing number of women are turning to sexy Internet sites, Cooper
speculated.
The researchers acknowledged that their respondents were
self-selected, not a random sample, and all were MSNBC users, whom
Cooper characterized as more professionally successful and affluent
than average Internet users. But because of the size of the survey,
he said, he believes it provides a valuable snapshot of people who
go on-line for sexual pursuits.
While corporations and government agencies are spending tens of
billions of dollars to solve the problem, investors still do not
know if those organizations are devoting enough time and resources
to fix the potential computer bug before Jan. 1, 2000.
Bennett announced at the hearing that he has introduced
legislation that would require companies to make specific
disclosures about what they have done to solve the problem and what
work they have left to do.
Computer experts warn that many computers originally programmed
to recognize only the last two digits of a year will fail or
malfunction on Jan. 1, 2000, when the machines will assume it is
1900.
Under this theory, the impact of the glitch would be felt when
one computer system that thinks the year is 1900 interacts with
another computer system that thinks the year is 2000.
The theory continues: Because computers can't think, neither
system can understand why it is 99 years ahead or behind. Unable to
sort out the problem, the two systems would either stop or give out
wrong information.
Some computers can be reprogrammed through tedious review of
their software code, but many devices have embedded microchips that
must be physically replaced.
Edward Yardeni, chief economist for the North American division
of the investment firm Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, said the potential
computer failures could prove devastating for many companies.
Steven L. Hock, president of Triaxsys Research Corp. of
Missoula, Mont., a consulting firm, said that nearly half of the
nation's 250 largest companies have disclosed no information on
their Year 2000 problem.
Of the companies that did provide some disclosure, most of the
information was so sketchy that it gave no clue as to where the
firms were in solving the problem, Hock said.
Only about 10 companies gave specific details on their progress
toward fixing or replacing bad computer systems and predicted
whether they would be ready by 2000.
He suggested that Congress require all companies to answer a
standardized set of specific questions on their plans for fixing
the Year 2000 problem.
Lynn Stout, a professor of securities law at Georgetown
University, said companies would continue to avoid giving full
information unless they are forced to do so.
 Disclose a summary of all costs already incurred in solving
the potential glitch and how much more money the company expects to
spend;
WASHINGTON Facing intense bipartisan criticism on Capitol
Hill, William Kennard, chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, offered Wednesday to scale back a plan to connect
schools and libraries to the Internet and said his agency would
make a final decision by Friday.
Appearing before the Senate communications subcommittee
considering his agency's budget, Kennard proposed stretching the
initial spending on the project to cover 18 months, instead of the
planned 12 months.
Roughly 30,000 schools and libraries across the nation have
applied for a total of $2 billion under the program. About $625
million has been collected this year, most of it from big
long-distance phone companies. The commission and lawmakers are
concerned that financing all the applications from schools and
libraries could lead to higher long-distance rates. Opponents of
the program want to limit spending to the $625 million already
raised.
People familiar with the negotiations between Congress and the
commission said that Kennard had started circulating a proposal to
give the program a maximum of $2.3 billion over 18 months, or about
$1.53 billion in 1998. Kennard was also weighing a plan to limit
the program to as little as $1.35 billion in 1998.
Senators at the hearing said the program as wasteful and
ill-suited to connecting students to cyberspace.
The program, which emerged from the Telecommunications Act of
1996, was originally limited by the commission to an annual budget
of $2.25 billion.
It has been clear since the winter that the program would not
receive the full amount. But until Wednesday, the commissioner had
not publicly discussed altering the timetable for distributing the
funds.
Powerful members of Congress, however, want to go much farther
to rein in the program. The chairmen and ranking minority members
of both the House and Senate commerce committees, which oversee the
FCC, said in a letter last week that the commission should suspend
the collection of money for the program.
Critics contend that the FCC exceeded its authority in
establishing a quasi-independent corporation to run the program and
say the commission ought to focus more closely on protecting the
subsidies that keep down phone rates in rural areas.
The letter was sent by Rep. Tom Bliley, R-Va., who is the
chairman of the House Commerce Committee; Rep. John Dingell,
D-Mich., who is the ranking minority member on the committee; Sen.
John McCain, R-Ariz., who is chairman of the Senate Commerce
Committee, and Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., the ranking minority
member on the committee.
Since then, Speaker Newt Gingrich and Sen. Trent Lott, the
majority leader, have spoken out against the program and both
President Clinton and Vice President Gore have voiced support for
the program.
During sentencing Wednesday for Francis John Kufrovich of
suburban Woodland Hills, prosecutors also said three other
youngsters, some from the Los Angeles area, are prepared to testify
about sexual relations with the 43-year-old. Prosecutors declined
to say whether Kufrovich faces charges based on those allegations.
In addition to 18 months in prison, Kufrovich also was ordered
to undergo three years of supervised release, mental counseling and
biannual lie-detector tests about his contact with minors,
officials said.
Before the sentencing in U.S. District Court in New Haven,
Conn., Kufrovich apologized tearfully to the Connecticut teen,
saying counseling has helped him to recognize his problem.
The girl, now 16, told Senior U.S. District Judge Ellen Bree
Burns that the incident put her into a deep depression and gave her
anxiety attacks that require medication.
Kufrovich was ordered to pay $25,000 in restitution to the
victim and her family for psychiatric care and counseling,
Garrity-Rokous said.
This was one of the first cases in the country brought under the
1996 Communications Decency Act, which makes it illegal to use the
Internet to persuade or induce a minor into sex.
Prosecutors said Kufrovich met the teen-ager in an online chat
room before arranging to meet her in Irving, Texas, where she and
her mother were attending a swim meet in March 1996, Garrity-Rokous
said. Kufrovich checked into the same hotel and invited the girl to
his room, where he tried to molest her, court records said.
Kufrovich pleaded guilty in March to one felony count each of
communicating interstate to entice a minor to engage in sex and
traveling interstate with the same intent.
Because Kufrovich had no criminal record, federal sentencing
guidelines called for a sentence of 12 to 21 months, which is
considerably less than the maximum 10-year prison term, the
prosecutor said.
Meadows is executive director of The Presidio Trust, the
quasi-public group charged with converting the former Army base
into a facility for a variety of civilian uses.
Exactly who gets what already has become a controversy. But the
arguments so far have overlooked a hidden asset one that Meadows
thinks can fuel the Presidio's economic engine.
In the Internet age, having fiber in the ground is like a
building site being wired for electricity or plumbed for water and
sewage.
Meadows plans to make this fiber loop the nerve center of a web
of multimedia, video and Internet-based enterprises.One industry he
hopes to kick-start is the creation of distance-learning broadcast
centers for colleges.
He also intends to plug all 1,600 housing units on the Presidio
into this fiber net, so folks at home will be able to hold
video-conferences with their offices or with other Presidio
families.
This isn't just some bureaucratic dream. Before he came to the
Presidio, Meadows managed the conversion of Denver's Lowry Air
Force Base. There, he created a fiber town with 4,000 wired homes
and many multimedia enterprises.
Meadows expects to encounter envy and opposition from those not
lucky enough to land in this high-tech Garden of Eden.
That's the gist of a new survey conducted by the Institute for
the New California, a public policy group in Walnut Creek. The INC
reached this conclusion after polling a scientific sample of
adults.
The Institute defined wired workers as wage earners who worked
outside the home, used network-connected PCs on the job, and were
relatively free to organize their own workdays.
Pollster Mike Hais said the survey respondents who fit this
definition identified themselves as independents, Republicans and
Democrats, in that order.
Coincidence or not: The Institute was co-founded by Morley
Winograd, a former Bell executive who now serves as senior policy
adviser to Gore.
 Bookmark it! CMP, the Long Island-based trade-press
publisher, soon will unveil a new Web site that makes it easier to
find electronics industry information.
CMP has taken the contents of dozens of its pubs among them EE
Times and Windows magazine and made it accessible from a single
page. It combines a search engine with a Yahoo-like set of
categories that point to sub-topics like semiconductors, PCs,
finance, etc.
Other Web sites, notably Cnet and ZDNet, put tons of great
tech-type info online. But I think CMP has a better way to let
people quickly zero in on just what they want.
The site won't be open to the public until Monday, but Chronicle
readers can get a peek today at www.cmpnet.com/search.
 Questionable taste? If it's such a boom time in Silicon
Valley, why did a recent survey of car dealers find that the
lowball Ford Taurus was the top-selling car in Santa Clara County
last year, while the Mercedes-Benz E-class was 15th on the list?
Got a tip, gripe or brainstorm? Tom Abate wants to hear it by
phone (650-961-2689), fax (650-961-5023) or e-mail (abate(at
sign)sfgate.com).
ATLANTA Once upon a time, if you wanted to be techno-cool it
was enough to have an e-mail account and a fast computer.
Nowadays that won't get you into the club. So if the real geeks
and gurus edge away from you at work, I am here today to bring you
a message of hope. You, too, can be a geek, even if you think IRQ
once invaded Kuwait and the chips you are most familiar with come
in a bag.
Even better, I'll show you several free ways to join the digital
elite. Once you've followed these simple steps, Bill Gates still
may not send you a Christmas card, but you'll gain new respect from
all those who wear propellers on their hats.
Let's start at the very beginning -- that dull start-up screen
on your computer. You'll need some new wallpaper. This kind of
wallpaper doesn't come with paste. It's the background image on
your computer screen. Let's replace the dull stuff Windows uses
with one of your favorite photos.
If you have a scanner, you can convert the photo to a digital
image yourself. If you don't have one, most photography places and
some office supply stores can do the conversion for just a few
dollars. Save the image as a bitmap file (that's a file that has a
BMP extension). Then put the image file in your Windows folder.
Here's what to do next. Let's say you called your file
CECIL.BMP. Simply right-click on the screen, go to Display
Properties and you'll find CECIL has been added to your wallpaper
choices. Just select it and there, big as life, is a picture of you
holding that big bass you caught last year.
Things are looking up now, but you still have a long way to go
before you're truly trendy. Now you'll need your own Web page. It
isn't enough to cruise the Web these days, you need a home on the
Web. Personal Web pages are important holding areas for all the bad
poetry you've ever written, for the photographs no one wanted to
see from your last vacation. You'll also want to put in links to
your favorite Web sites. (Be careful with the last item. You really
don't want to put in your favorite Web sites. Instead, use Web
sites that offer impossible-to-understand technical information.
The more technical the Web site, the cooler you are.)
If you are rich and foolish, you can get space to park your Web
page from your current Internet provider. But, unless free Web
space is part of your account, you can use one of the many services
that gives Web space away.
You could take a community college class and learn to write the
HTML code needed to create the Web page itself. But, instead, let's
go to a free site and download a program called AOL Press. It works
like a word processor and can spit out a Web page in just minutes.
Just drop in at http://www.aolpress.com/index
You're almost cool now. But there's one crowning touch. Live
chat is very trendy. You can spend hours each night telling
flattering untruths about yourself to complete strangers who, in
return, will do the same thing.
But anyone can log on to one of the chat channels and meet
people. What you need is your very own chat room. Hey, it's the
difference between renting and owning. You'll be able to put a link
to it on the Web page we just built, and instead of meeting your
friends on some public chat channel, you can meet at your place.
Just go to the following Web address -- http://www.parachat.com/
-- and, in just seconds, you'll get everything you need to start
your own chat service.
Despite several attempts to fashion a compromise under pressure
from the White House and Congress, law enforcement officials remain
deeply at odds with the software industry over the encryption
issue.
But the Business Software Alliance, an industry trade that
sponsored the news conference, countered with a study which held
that a government bid to curb Internet encryption would cost users
at least $7.7 billion a year and $38.5 billion over five years.
The standoff led on Tuesday to a summit conference between
government and industry leaders, including Attorney General Janet
Reno, FBI Director Louis Freeh and Thomas Constantine, head of the
Drug Enforcement Administration.
The trade group also released a report on the benefits of
electronic commerce predicting that direct business-to-business
transactions in cyberspace in 2000 would range from $66 billion to
$171 billion. By 2002, the study foresaw electronic commerce
reaching the $300 billion level.
AIR-BAGS (Albany, N.Y.) New York's highest court has ruled
that the Toyota Motor Corp. can be held liable for injuries that
might have been prevented by an air bag, even though air bags were
not required at the time of a 1991 accident. Tuesday's decision
means auto manufacturers who adhere to all government manufacturing
standards can still be sued in New York. By JOHN CAHER.
LAREDO-PROBE (Laredo, Texas) In a bid to keep a 73-page
document secret, prosecutors revealed for the first time that a
federal grand jury is probing allegations of criminal activity
involving the Webb County district attorney's office. By DANE
SCHILLER.
SCHOOLS-POLLUTION (San Francisco) Swirling clouds of
industrial air pollutants expose half of California's school
children to chemicals known to cause cancer, respiratory illness
and other diseases, says a new study released. By JANE KAY.
SNOW-MELT (San Francisco) As El Nino relinquishes its cool,
clammy grip on California, it leaves brimming reservoirs and
rambunctious rivers and hints that it's not through causing trouble
yet. Most reservoirs are 96 percent or more full. By ERIC BRAZIL.
BREAST-CANCER (Schenectady, N.Y.) Most women have heard war
stories about the mammogram, the first line of defense against
breast cancer. But for too many women, it is still the enemy, even
though regular screenings can detect breast cancer in its earliest
stages and improve the chances of recovery. By SYLVIA WOOD.
GLF-OPEN-FANS (San Francisco) Viewing the U.S. Open in person
must be like what toddlers hear their mothers yell near the candy
rack in the supermarket: No! No! No! No! No! No cheering, whooping
or hollering during play. In fact, try not to move or even sneeze.
No cameras. No cell phones. No beeping pagers. By RACHEL GORDON.
GLF-OPEN-MARTIN (San Francisco) The Casey Martin saga is
flourishing on the sacred turf of the U.S. Open. Martin addressed
the media about his surprising and ground-breaking presence while
two of the game's legends said that, with all due respect to
Martin, they didn't think he should be here as long as he needed a
cart to get around. By MARK FAINARU-WADA.
GLF-OPEN-ELS (San Francisco) Defending U.S. Open Champion
Ernie Els is one of the players trying to overcome a back injury.
Sitting uncomfortably while answering questions, Els couldn't hide
the extent of his problems Tuesday. Nor did he try. By JEFFRI
CHADIHA.
GLF-OPEN-MOOD (San Francisco) Titanium and muscles being what
they are in 1998, the 288-yard seventh hole of the Olympic Club's
Lake Course would seem to be but a drive and a putt away from the
156 U.S. Open contestants. But caution and patience were the ruling
values. By SUSAN FORNOFF.
MORSE-COLUMN (San Francisco) There's not much you can say
about taking a cold and cloudy week's vacation in San Diego (not
even that the in-laws' place in Escondido), then returning to a
hot and sunny San Francisco overrun by golfers. El Nino has tipped
the West Coast upside down. By ROB MORSE.
LYNCH-COLUMN (Mechanicville, N.Y.) This upstate New York town
was devastated by tornadoes recently. But the Clinton
administration is dragging its feet in coughing up emergency aid.
Is it possible even remotely plausible that partisan politics
is holding up help for this solidly Republican area? By DAN LYNCH.
GLOBAL-ECONOMY ( Geneva, Switzerland) In this exemplar city of
global finance and international organizations, a violent
demonstration erupted when people protested against the World Trade
Organization and a recent conference here attended by dozens of
world leaders, including President Bill Clinton. By MARCO A.
MANGELSDORF
LEBANON (San Pedro, Calif.) Lebanon was not even Jesus'
birthplace, or Mohammad's key geographical point to conquer, nor by
any means Buddha's idea of a serene place. But in that tiny country
whose main economy thrived once on the benevolence of open-handed
tourists, religion has taken the form of a dangerous country club.
By GLADYS ALAM SAROYAN
ATLANTA -- The first delivery shown over the Internet produced a
baby boy, but thousands who turned in couldn't see the birth.
For those who got through, the images were abrupt they tended
to freeze and blurry at best. Still, thousands tried to see the
birth of 7-pound, 8-ounce Sean, the fourth child of Elizabeth, a
40-year-old woman who didn't want her last name used. Cameras were
discreetly trained on Elizabeth's side and in front of her hospital
bed, but nurses backs blocked any view of the actual delivery.
America's Health Network, which put the delivery on its Internet
site, said there were more than 10 million hits at the Web site
throughout the day. At any one minute, 5,000 viewers were able to
log onto the site.
Elizabeth and the network said they wanted to help educate
mothers-to-be and quell their fears. But those who logged on may
not have gotten much of an educational experience.
Among those who did not rise at the crack of dawn to follow
Elizabeth from her 6 a.m. check-in to her delivery at 10:40 a.m.,
was Christopher Rywalt, a New Jersey resident who tried to showhis
wife's delivery live through the internet last year.
He had arranged to show his wife's delivery over the Web, but
the hospital pulled the plug at the last minute.
DAYTON, Ohio -- Xiomara Young joined the millions of people who
shopped on the Internet this year. But she wasn't in the market for
a CD, a book or a car. She shopped for and found a job with Bank
One Dayton.
Indeed, Dayton-area employers increasingly are trawling the
Internet for workers as a way to fish for talent in a shrinking
labor pool. They see it as a way to broaden their reach, in
addition to buying traditional classified ads in newspapers.
Dozens of free and for-fee sites on the Net allow head hunters
and job seekers alike to find each other in a way impossible just a
few years ago. Several, including JobTrak, link employers with
colleges, offering the next best thing to on-site recruiting.
The Internet as job-recruiting tool takes on added significance
when mapped against a joint University of Dayton and Wright State
University study this year, which showed there are more than 48,700
local jobs available in this time of near-record low unemployment
levels.
Susan Hoying, global recruitment director for NCR, offered a
hard lesson for companies posting their own employment sites. In
its haste to launch an employment page about two years ago, NCR
tabbed a third party, CareerMosaic, the hottest job bank on the
Web.
Moreover, the job site is not on the same computer server as the
rest of NCR's Web pages, meaning the company has to go through
CareerMosaic to update the listings.
The Internet has brought the world's employers to home PCs.
Workers can look for jobs virtually anywhere in the world, any time
of day, increasing the choices of an already mobile workforce. More
advances are on the way.
New software in the works will let job seekers keypunch their
desired position, salary, location and other requirements and have
their PCs hunt the Web for suitable jobs. The software will alert
users when the search is done and keep the list on file.
Smith, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, is using
the layoff numbers to bolster his insistence that companies
employing foreign workers take specific steps to protect the jobs
of U.S. workers steps that companies are strenuously fighting.
The companies and their trade associations said Smith is making
a connection where there is none. Jerry Jasinowski, president of
the National Association of Manufacturers, said the layoff numbers
have little to do with a shortage of qualified U.S. technical
workers and the companies' desire to hire the best workers, no
matter where they come from.
The disagreement is the latest skirmish in what is becoming an
increasingly entrenched battle between Smith and the business
community over H-1B visas, which enable highly skilled foreign
workers to hold jobs with U.S. companies for up to six years.
This year's allotment of 65,000 visas ran out almost six weeks
ago, and companies and their would-be employees are anxious for
Congress to make more visas available immediately and to boost the
number of H-1Bs available in coming years. The Senate has passed
legislation that would increase the visas, but the House version written by Smith is stalled because of corporate opposition to
the requirements he would impose on companies.
Videva spoke Tuesday at a Capitol Hill press conference
sponsored by business and pro-immigration groups that are anxious
to see the House approve more visas. Outside the conference,
Smith's spokesman, Allen Kay, distributed the congressman's news
release questioning corporate layoffs.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Whatever happens with today's United States
Golf Association press conference regarding equipment, there's no
likely need to panic. Do expect something long-term, but don't
presume anything immediate. The blue blazers and white caps won't
be riding herd with the 156 participants today, ordering them to
play the first round of the U.S. Open with persimmon woods,
nonperimeter weighted irons, a low-tech golf ball, plaid
bell-bottoms and Ban-Lon shirts.
Speculation has been rampant ever since the USGA said it was
studying possible restrictions on the kind of high-tech, highly
successful equipment that has been helping amateurs and pros all
over the globe come a little closer to figuring out the game of
golf. The USGA is concerned that technology is taking away from
talent and that in 20 years you'll need a 750-yard par-5 to protect
Old Man Par.
Expecting the worst, equipment manufacturers such as Ely
Callaway have been advising consumers to do everything but sleep
with their Big Bertha drivers. It's unlikely, however, that the
USGA, on the eve of its showcase championship, would unload a
blockbuster announcement to cause panic in the golf industry.
In fact, despite theorizing you may have read about oversized,
titanium drivers soon going the way of the T. rex, until the USGA
brass met this past weekend in San Francisco, it had not decided
precisely what would be said at a press conference The Golf Channel
will televise live.
The USGA is not expected to announce any rules changes today.
More likely is the announcement of a USGA task force to study the
equipment matter probably containing some people from the golf
industry, to help deflect potential legal problems. Any future
mandates are likely to contain a reasonable grace period, probably
by 2000. Plus, any changes would have to be discussed with Europe's
ruling body, the Royal Ancient Golf Club in Scotland.
High-tech equipment is, however, putting demand on courses.
Augusta National, for example, announced last week significant
changes to four holes (Nos. 2, 11, 15 and 17) in an effort to
reward accuracy over distance.
Distance is the number one advantage high-tech equipment offers.
Although oversized, long-shafted titanium drivers might mean just a
few extra yards for some golfers, most pros say they gain an extra
15-20 yards. Golf balls are going farther on their own, too,
although how much is up for debate. There's no denying, however,
the fact that the PGA Tour's average driving distance keeps going
up every year.
And so do golf equipment sales. Golfers spent $2.5 billion on
equipment last year, which explains why Callaway and other
manufacturers are worried about even the slight hint of a ban.
WASHINGTON For the first time, an energy technology called a
fuel cell will supply all the power to a suburban house, another
sign that fuel cells are on the verge of acceptance as an
economical alternative to traditional energy sources.
The idea of fuel cells which convert liquid fuel into
electricity through a chemical reaction rather than combustion has been around for more than 100 years. But until recently, fuel
cells were so expensive that it was practical only for NASA's
specialized use on space missions. But the cells being tested now
are powerful, flexible and reliable enough to work as an affordable
earth-bound energy source.
On Wednesday, a team of engineers will cut off the electricity
the local utility company provides to a brick ranch-style house in
Latham, N.Y., and switch on a back-porch component that looks more
like a home central air-conditioning unit than the small chemical
plant it really is.
Developments in the past few weeks include the first commercial
sale of a fuel cell for remote power (to the New Jersey Department
of Transportation, for a traffic warning sign) and the first
street-ready car powered by a fuel cell (built by students at
Humboldt State University in California). And in April, Ford put
$420 million into Ballard Power Systems, a fuel cell company in
Vancouver, B.C., in which Daimler-Benz already has a major
investment.
Officials at the Energy Department, which is helping to pay for
the test in Latham, say they have high hopes that within a few
years thousands of homes will be drawing electric power from fuel
cells powered by natural gas or propane, cutting pollution and
consuming less fuel than conventional energy production.
What has made fuel cells more practical has been improvements in
the gossamer-thin components, which look like plastic food wrap or
aluminum foil, that are used to turn a basic chemical reaction the combination of oxygen and hydrogen to make water into the
basis of an energy revolution.
The heart of the fuel cell being used in house in Latham and
being studied for use in automobiles is called a proton-exchange
membrane. When a hydrogen atom one proton and one electron is
pressed against that membrane, the proton passes through and the
electron is left behind. That creates a positive charge on one side
of the membrane and a negative charge on the other; wire them
together, and the result is a flow of electricity.
But for all the breakthroughs, fuel cells are still much too
expensive for everyday use. The car companies, which would probably
be the biggest users of an efficient fuel cell, say that they still
cost roughly 100 times more per horsepower than an internal
combustion engine does. Chrysler, for example, figures that each
car-sized fuel-cell stack it buys costs $170,000. And running
houses on fuel cells is substantially more expensive than relying
on power from conventional utility plants.
Plug Power will not say what its prototype cost, arguing that
the figure is about as relevant as the cost of producing the first
automobile of a model year; it is astronomical but allows the
production of thousands more units at lower cost. Plug Power
predicts that it can commercialize fuel cells for houses by 2000,
at a cost of $3,000 to $5,000 each. Detroit Edison, a part-owner of
Plug Power, plans to purchase 30,000 to 50,000 units.
A New Jersey company, H-Power, also hopes for mass sales. In
March it made what it describes as the first ever unsubsidized,
fully commercial sale of a fuel cell that will supply energy for a
trailer-mounted highway sign, the kind that are commonly used to
warn of construction projects along the roadway. The company will
supply 65 of them for $759,000.
NEW YORK Entering a market crowded with some of the biggest
companies in cyberspace, The New York Times Co. said Monday that it
would introduce an Internet service about entertainment,
restaurants and shopping in New York City and its suburbs. The
site, called New York Today, will be available, starting Tuesday,
at www.nytoday.com.
The service will compete with New York Sidewalk from Microsoft,
Digital Cities New York from America Online and Citysearch New York
from Citisearch, a privately held company. All the companies are
seeking a share of the rich market for local advertising, which
includes classified advertising, yellow pages listings, outdoor,
broadcast and print ads.
Daniel Donaghy, the general manager of New York Today, said that
he hoped that the breadth of the news and reviews about New York
events written for The New York Times would distinguish the site
from the competition. But Donaghy, said the company expected that
the most important advantage would be technology that allows each
user to customize the service to see both information and
advertising related to the user's own interests.
The site is designed to look like an appointment calendar, with
weather forecasts, arts events and other information listed by
date.
In one unusual feature, advertisers can have their sales and
other promotional events mixed in with the arts and entertainment
listings. Users can see a list of these sales and, if they choose,
have sales for categories of their choice displayed when they first
enter the site.
In addition to the calendar listings, New York Today has a
number of other close links between advertising and the site's
editorial content. For example, a user who searches the classified
advertising listings of The Times for, say, condominiums in
Greenwich Village will also see advertisements offering listings of
the same type of property from several real estate brokers.
That advertising will be marked as such and displayed in red
type, while editorial content will be in blue type.
 Zegrahm DeepSea Voyages is offering a nine-day cruise to see
the wreckage of the Titanic, beginning August 20, for $32,000 a
passenger. Twelve passengers will set out from St. John's,
Newfoundland, and ferry overnight to a research ship of the P.P.
Shirshov Institute of Oceanography in Moscow, which is anchored
near the Titanic.
For six days, reports Men's Journal, groups including two
passengers and one leader will descend in MIR submersibles in
eight-hour dives to see the wreckage of the Titanic.
 The 100 presenters and participants in Academy Awards
ceremonies, targeted by an array of purveyors wanting to call their
attention to their products, each received a gift basket weighing
57 pounds, says Luxe magazine.
Absolut vodka, Bulgari's fragrance, a Christofle silver letter
tray, Frederic Fekkai day of beauty, Harry Winston sterling
compass, a JBL stereo CD system, a Montblanc fountain pen,
Ferragamo silk scarf and Tag Heuer chronograph watch.
 Sara Hamlen reports that the 18-year-old triplets working
together for the summer at Grace Baking on Solano Avenue in Oakland
are named Veni , Vidi and Vici Jumana . They start City College
in San Francisco this fall.
 Paul McCartney , Ringo Starr and George Harrison , having
lifted their voices together at Linda McCartney's funeral service,
are talking about putting out an album perhaps with Elton John and Sting to benefit animal rights, reports the New
York Post.
 Zegrahm DeepSea Voyages is offering a nine-day cruise to see
the wreckage of the Titanic, beginning August 20, for $32,000 a
passenger. Twelve passengers will set out from St. John's,
Newfoundland, and ferry overnight to a research ship of the P.P.
Shirshov Institute of Oceanography in Moscow, which is anchored
near the Titanic.
For six days, reports Men's Journal, groups including two
passengers and one leader will descend in MIR submersibles in
eight-hour dives to see the wreckage of the Titanic.
 The 100 presenters and participants in Academy Awards
ceremonies, targeted by an array of purveyors wanting to call their
attention to their products, each received a gift basket weighing
57 pounds, says Luxe magazine.
Absolut vodka, Bulgari's fragrance, a Christofle silver letter
tray, Frederic Fekkai day of beauty, Harry Winston sterling
compass, a JBL stereo CD system, a Montblanc fountain pen,
Ferragamo silk scarf and Tag Heuer chronograph watch.
 Sara Hamlen reports that the 18-year-old triplets working
together for the summer at Grace Baking on Solano Avenue in Oakland
are named Veni , Vidi and Vici Jumana . They start City College
in San Francisco this fall.
 Paul McCartney , Ringo Starr and George Harrison , having
lifted their voices together at Linda McCartney's funeral service,
are talking about putting out an album perhaps with Elton John and Sting to benefit animal rights, reports the New
York Post.
PARIS Western governments have been unanimous in demanding
that Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto initiate sweeping
reforms designed to rescue his country's critically sagging economy
before it drags down the rest of the world.
But the problem is that Hashimoto, like most of his
predecessors, lacks both the authority and prestige even to
contemplate such a task.
Hashimoto is, in reality, a minor personage, chosen as a
figurehead leader precisely because his political clout is all but
nonexistent.
That is how most post-World War II Tokyo governments have
operated: The real power brokers behind the scenes nominate straw
men to head the government because they're expendable and offer
little prospect of interfering with the authentic policymakers, who
have usually been potent and unassailable bureaucrats, invisible to
the public.
For most of the past half-century, the Liberal Democratic Party
has officially monopolized power. However, the LDP is itself
divided into numerous factions, warring against one another and
each allied to a different group of bureaucrats. Hashimoto is a
junior member of one of these factions. His status stems from his
ranking within the party and not from the fact that he is the
current prime minister.
American and other worried Western officials have agreed for
some time that Japan's pressing need is to stimulate domestic
demand for goods and services. Japanese consumers have zipped up
their wallets and aren't buying partly because of their lack of
confidence in their rulers, exacerbated now by the sinking yen.
But increasing consumer demand would mean lowering taxes and
relaxing monopoly conditions, which have kept prices and profit
margins much higher than in many other countries. But clamping down
on monopolies is strongly opposed by powerful bureaucrats in the
finance ministry, the ministry of industry and elsewhere.
Anderson, of course, comes off pretty no-nonsense herself. If it
weren't a part of her personality, she couldn't pull off that
special panache brainy, skeptical, stone-facedly self-controlled that makes FBI agent Dana Scully one of television's most
fascinating and groundbreaking characters.
But you can also detect contradictions and banked fires in the
29-year-old actress. Given the right stimulus, a wild side could
emerge, something Scully might deem as alien as a sewer-dwelling
human tapeworm.
Now add to the list of Anderson's burgeoning responsibilities
that of movie star. But even that has more riding on it than your
average TV actor's initial forays into the costlier, higher-stakes
realm of feature films.
In the movie, Scully and Duchovny's Fox Mulder have been
reassigned to an anti-terrorist unit following the destruction of
the X-Files in last season's closing episode of the show. But that
doesn't stop them from getting involved in another alarming
operation rife with alien colonizers and their apparent allies, the
international Syndicate of rich, powerful, ruthless and mysterious
men.
Ranging from a bombed-out building in Dallas to a bizarre
experimental facility beneath the Antarctic snowpack to FBI hearing
rooms in Washington where, as usual, Mulder and Scully have a lot
of explaining to do, the movie indeed delivers its share of summer
entertainment excitement. But the scene that may excite X-Philes
most involves a close encounter between Scully and Mulder in his
apartment building's hallway.
She was also a complete punk at the time black clothes, Mohawk
hairdo, a piercing here and there and that decidedly
un-Scully-like presentation attitude traveled with her to L.A.
Though praised now for the exponential improvement in her fashion
taste over the last couple of years, initially Anderson was hardly
a casting director's dream.
At least Gillian Anderson has some. Which brings us back to the
subject of Scully and whether the poor gal ever has any fun.
It is Saturday morning, 6:30 a.m., and a faint light is
beginning to creep through the blinds of the master bedroom where
two figures are sleeping peacefully in their queen-sized bed.
Suddenly, they hear the creaking of a door hinge.
One of the figures in the bed stirs, turning over onto his back.
This is Adam, who, somewhere in his confused semi-consciousness,
feels a weight on his body and then his head.
By the time he's had his morning coffee, that attitude has begun
to improve. And by midafternoon the time he usually takes his son
to the park he feels quite good about himself and the decision
he's made.
The rapid increase of middle-aged fathers and the growing and,
many would say, inappropriate interest in fathering relatively
late in a man's life are mainly the result of delayed childbearing
by many professional women and the rise in the divorce rate. And
technology has made it much more possible today for older women and their older husbands to have children even if the wife is not
significantly younger than the husband.
It all sounds like fun older men finding new meaning in life
and women attaining professional success first and then having
families, too.
But not everyone agrees that it is such a good thing. Those who
object see older parents as acting selfishly, against the interest
of the children they choose to parent. They do not find the
grayheads with preschoolers cute. For many Americans, middle-aged
parents are just one more symbol of the decay of traditional values
and the growing selfishness that puts misplaced self-satisfaction
ahead of the greater social good. THE GREAT MORAL DEBATE 
Steve and others who are fathering second families tend to talk
a lot about the difference in feelings and commitment they have
this second time around. Fathers in their late 40s, 50s and beyond
tend to value children as much as their work, and often more. They
seem to spend more time with their children than younger fathers.
Some have retired from the working world completely and take on
roles as stay-at-home parents while their younger wives go to
full-time jobs.
But with all the intensity of later fatherhood, the new role is
not easy. The self-indulgence of late middle age bumps against the
energies of a new life demanding attention. Even if an older father
may not be as concerned with competing at work, and much more
concerned with discovering his emotions, he often wants to focus on
himself, his wife, his children from an earlier marriage or his
grandchildren all of which can be tough competition against the
needs of his still-young child.
One older father, Larry, was talking to the wife of an old
friend when the conversation turned abruptly to older parents. The
woman was obviously disturbed by the notion that Larry and other
men her husband's age are fathering young children.
Today, if a man reaches 50, he will, on average, live past 80.
True, there is still a good chance that, if he is an older father,
his child will lose him in his or her 20s, at a time when many
children are still emotionally and financially dependent on their
fathers. But there is an even better chance that the father will be
there for the child's wedding and the grandchildren.
When we ask Larry about this conundrum, he is still not sure
what the right answer is. But he does feel that he has probably
spent a lot more time thinking about parenting than younger parents
do certainly more than when he had fathered his first child at
the age of 27.
For now, Larry seems to have settled, at least in his own mind,
that he is doing the right thing.
 (Martin Carnoy is a professor of education and economics at
Stanford University. His son Martin is an editor at Success
magazine.) ---------------------------------------------- 
Like Johnson, more fathers today are making a connection between
their work life and their family life. Nearly 70 percent of working
men say that family is just as important as their job, or more
important, according to a national Roper Organization survey. As a
result, many working dads are struggling to find the balance that
was once thought to be only a mother's problem.
So in these times, it's no longer enough to simply ask whether a
working mother hurts her kids by being away from them most of the
day. We now also need to address the brand-new question: What are
the consequences for families and businesses when fathers work?
For years, it's been a fact of life that dads' jobs typically
take them away from their children for more than eight hours a day.
It's been through their work, through being good economic
providers, that fathers have established their very identities and
taken care of their families.
So it never occurred to families or employers that business
should do anything aside from providing a paycheck to support
men as fathers. After all, why would it matter? Weren't work and
family separate worlds?
The answer seems to be a resounding no. Over the past two
decades, a new wave of research on child and family development,
which had previously focused nearly exclusively on mothers, has
begun to document the vital role that fathers play in their
children's lives. This has led to a revolutionary understanding of
working dads: A man's dual roles as father and worker have an
enormous impact on each other. HOW WORK AFFECTS FAMILY 
Friedman and Jeffrey Greenhaus, professor of management at
Drexel University in Philadelphia, found that children ages 4 to 17
whose fathers say they are satisfied with their work exhibit fewer
behavioral problems such as shyness, withdrawal and aggressiveness.
And for girls, feeling competent in math is linked to a close
and warm relationship with their fathers, according to studies at
the University of Michigan School of Social Work in Ann Arbor.
+ How a boss treats a father can affect how a father treats his
kids.
Indianapolis-based art director Jeff Lovell, who has custody of
his three children, often has to come in late to work for family
reasons. Fortunately, he has a supportive boss.
And that kind of autonomy on the job leads to higher self-esteem
for a dad, according to researcher Karen Grimm-Thomas of
Pennsylvania State University in University Park.
Do businesses value a man for being a good dad and show it in
their policies?
Not as often as dads would like. Flextime is rarely an option.
Paternity leave is rarely paid. And since men typically continue to
earn more than women, it is usually not financially feasible for a
father to take an unpaid leave even if a company offers it.
But good managers are at least beginning to recognize the
interdependence of work and family.
At Corning Inc. in Corning, N.Y., manager Ed O'Brien lets his
employees define their own schedules. And he values the expertise
good parents bring with them to work.
Indeed, a father who just returned to his job as a purchasing
agent after taking paternity leave says that caring for his
4-month-old has given him a whole new way of listening to people.
How can you ease your own work-and-family juggling act,
especially when you may not have the most enlightened of bosses?
Here are some strategies.
Think your bosses will never allow any adjustment in work
schedule, or that they'd interpret a family obligation as a lack of
commitment to the job? If so, you might actually cheat yourself of
what you need.
The moral of the story: If you don't ask for what you need, you
won't get it.
Your boss doesn't have to hear every detail of a family problem.
He or she just needs to be convinced that, in an emergency, you
have a plan for getting your work done, such as doing it at home or
having a colleague cover for you.
As downsizing leads to bigger workloads, it's increasingly
important to know how to turn down work that might compromise your
family's needs.
If you're having work/family problems, it's likely that your
fellow employees are, too. Chris Colbern, who supervises payroll
services at Cigna, a Philadelphia-based insurance company, gathered
a group of co-workers together to look at how other companies had
implemented flextime. The result: a new Cigna scheduling system
that virtually all employees prefer.
It may not yet be the law of the land, but a member of the
nation's highest court is recognizing dads' family needs. In 1994,
shortly after her appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court, Justice
Ruth Bader Ginsburg was asked why she agreed to a flexible schedule
for law clerk David Post, who was attending Georgetown University
at night. His wife, an economist, had a demanding job, so Post
needed to care for their children during part of each day.
For more than 40 years, I have walked the fairways of the world
behind the game's greatest artists, playing in the most famous
championships on the planet's most storied courses.
To me, it has principally been the result of the sterling
careers of certain players, and not Arnold Palmer alone. I'll be
audacious enough now to list my top 10 players, whose achievements
I have described on ABC and CBS during the past 40 years. The McKay Ratings 
Tack on a total of 70 wins on the PGA Tour, two Walker Cup
teams, six Ryder Cup teams (twice captain), two U.S. Senior Open
titles and a Senior PGA. He intimidated his peers like no one since
Bobby Jones.
His toughest loss came at Pebble Beach in the 1982 U.S. Open. At
the age of 42, he had finished his final round of the championship
and was standing beside the scorer's tent waiting to be interviewed
as the first player ever to win five U.S. Opens, if Tom Watson
bogied either of the last two holes. And Watson was in trouble, his
ball sitting in long grass behind the green of the par three 17th.
From our tower at 18, I looked down on Nicklaus. He was staring
at a monitor showing Watson lining up his shot. From the difficult
lie, it might well run far across the green, leaving him a likely
bogie and setting up victory for Jack.
To understand Arnold Palmer and his endless appeal to Everyman,
it helps to sit with him as I did at the home (in Latrobe, Pa.) he
and his wife, Winnie, have lived in for more than 35 years and
understand that he IS Everyman.
He still loves to sit by the pool, looking down toward the
course he grew up on, just at the bottom of the hill. That day some
four or five years ago, he smiled and told me how he used to lie
outside his family's house on the edge of the course and wait for
the woman to come by the sixth hole--the woman who always gave him
a nickel if he would hit her ball over the water hazard for her.
I once asked Arnold Palmer how he has kept such a hold on his
fans. He looked at me, a faint smile on his face.
My most vivid memory of Trevino in his heyday is at the 1972
British Open on the Muirfield links in Scotland.
It could have been the pro-am preceding the Quad Cities Open as
far as his attitude was concerned. He kept up a running
conversation, or more properly a monologue, with the Scottish
gallery all the way around.
Then he laughed and knocked his tee shot in his usual
left-to-right arc into the middle of the fairway.
Of his remarkable five British Open victories, four of them were
won by a single shot, one in a playoff.
If Nicklaus was the greatest and Palmer the most charismatic of
championship golfers, certainly Tom Watson, as he plays on in his
late 40s, still convinced that he will win another major, is the
most tenacious.
In July of 1954, at the age of 18, Gary Player stepped off a
train at a small town in Scotland, carrying a cardboard suitcase
held together with a piece of rope. Since that day, he has become
the world's most traveled athlete, flying around the globe year
after year, winning the national championships of the United
States, Great Britain, Australia, Chile, and Brazil, among others.
I feel uncomfortable not placing Greg Norman in my top bracket.
Today, he is probably the best-known golfer in the world, having
won 55 tournaments internationally, as well as 16 on the American
tour.
Every great player has performances he would rather forget, but
Greg's have come in the spotlight of major championships and have
come in such dramatic fashion that they dominate his image, despite
all his achievements.
What happened? No one knows, although some theorists blame
imperfections in his swing, others the explosive nature of his
character. But it seems to be over for Seve at age 40, unless he
can pull some middle-aged miracles as he creeps toward 50 and the
Senior Tour. His impact on the game remains, however.
It was his play that forced expansion of the Ryder Cup matches
from the U.S. versus Great Britain and Ireland to the U.S. versus
all of Europe. As a result, the matches,have become an increasingly
competitive and major event.
He has not yet joined the pantheon of the game, partly because
of his rather phlegmatic personality and, in the minds of some
people, because of his reliance on a golfing guru named David
Leadbetter, who completely rebuilt Nick's swing and follows him
around the course and to the practice tee as if Faldo were still a
student, not a champion.
How's this for career longevity? He was only 18 when he turned
pro 35 years ago. Now, as he nears his mid-50s, he is still winning
on the Senior Tour and occasionally returning to the regular tour
to instruct his juniors by example on how to play the game with
skill and dignity.
10. To round out my top 10, I'll have to resort to that old cop-
out, a tie. In this case, a three way tie, among Ben Crenshaw, Tom
Kite and Hale Irwin.
All three of the world's famous championships were won in '97 by
men in their 20s; Woods, 21, the Masters; Els, 27, the U.S. Open;
and Leonard, 25, the British Open. Might one of them be the new
Nicklaus or Palmer? Possibly.
But as far as ranking any of them, I can only echo the comment
made long ago by Red Smith. After Willie Mays had turned in his
second great season in the majors, someone asked Red if he thought
Mays was as good as Joe DiMaggio.
The hostility toward Deborah Eappen surprised Caryl Rivers, a
Boston University professor and author of a new book on two-career
families. It seemed to suggest that, counter to some of Rivers'
research, society wasn't so comfortable with working mothers after
all.
Blame fell on Deborah Eappen not simply for being at work when
her baby had to be rushed to the hospital but for allegedly
exploiting Woodward, who was paid $115 to work 45 hours per week,
even though the Eappens had the added expense of Woodward's travel
and agency fees.
When, at trial, Woodward's legal team got a neurosurgeon to
admit that serum leaked from eight-month old Matthew Eappen's wound a sign that the injury might have occurred long before he lapsed
into a coma many of Woodward's defenders blamed the Eappens for
accusing a working-class girl from economically faltering Elton,
England.
In the offices and living rooms of Massachusetts, some people
took sides on the merits of the case, with their sentiments falling
along class lines. Cocktail parties hummed with disgust over the
way Woodward's defenders were casting blame on a working mother.
Bars thundered with anger over Reilly's hubris in charging the girl
with anything at all.
When Woodward, looking every inch the apple-cheeked schoolgirl,
took the stand to deny hurting Matthew Eappen, she won over her
countrymen. But many wondered: Would her stiff upper lip, which
impressed folks back home as a show of fortitude, come off as cold
to a jury in the more emotive US?
Any notion that Woodward lacked emotions evaporated the night
before Halloween, when she screamed and nearly collapsed after the
jury, revealing its decision in mid-evening, declared her guilty of
murder in the second degree.
Many observers believed Scheck had done a pretty good job
raising questions about whether the baby had died of a fresh
injury, as prosecutors insisted. The prosecution was hardly
confident of a murder conviction. Reilly's assistants offered to
give the jury the option of finding Woodward guilty of
manslaughter. The defense, sensing an acquittal, refused.
After the jury convicted Woodward of second-degree murder, with
a minimum sentence of 15 years in prison, Scheck, Silverglate and
fellow defender Andrew Good met the media with the washed-out,
almost tearful faces of a baseball team having just lost the World
Series. They accepted responsibility for the failure to allow the
jury to consider manslaughter, and insisted that Woodward should
not be made to pay for their error.
Enter Judge Hiller B. Zobel, the veteran jurist known for his
willingness to go against convention. Eleven days after the jury
announced its decision, Zobel exercised a seldom-invoked judicial
prerogative to reduce Woodward's conviction to manslaughter, and to
limit her sentence to time served.
Did the widespread media coverage of public sympathy for
Woodward embolden Zobel to take such an unusual step? If so, that
by itself suggests that television is influencing the rendering of
justice.
In terms of better training for those who care for children,
yes. Philip Johnson, president of EF Au Pair, says the case
transformed his business, which oversees 4,000 foreigners working
in American homes. Standards are tougher: All au pairs now undergo
personality tests, and must document 200 hours of infant care.
Training now includes eight hours of instruction in coping with
children under age 2. The Massachusetts Legislature is considering
a bill to raise the weekly stipend for au pairs to $187. Still, the
number of British girls seeking placements plunged by about a half.
There is some indication that, after viewers digest an
especially filling case, reason supersedes emotion. In
Massachusetts, Woodward served as one bookend to another hugely
publicized case, the murder of Jeffrey Curley, the Cambridge boy
lured by his killers with the promise of a bicycle.
If the Curley case persuaded some skeptics that there are, in
fact, crimes so heinous as to justify the death penalty, the
Woodward trial, which knocked Curley off the front page, argued in
return that life-and-death decisions ought not be entrusted to the
legal system.
Brides and grooms get so much advice most of it wrong that
they panic. It's like having a baby: As soon as people find out
you're expecting a wedding, they feel free to tell you what to do
and give dire warnings about being improper i.e., tacky.
Well, worry no more. Here are the Top Ten Marriage Myths and
the right answers, no matter what anyone says. Folks will swear
these myths are the eternal Etiquette Truth etched in stone and
handed down by some Etiquette God. Well, they aren't.
Although it is customary to ask brothers and sisters to be
attendants, the bride and groom are free to ask whomever they wish best friends, pals from the office, a buddy from a favorite bar.
But beware: This could be deadly. Friends come and go, while
your families are there forever. You avoid a lot of hurt feelings
by asking brothers and sisters.
Being given away is a tradition that evolved from the days when
men bought brides from their fathers or, even worse, captured them.
Today many young women feel this custom is archaic. Somehow it was
charming when a woman went from her father's home directly to her
new husband's, but that's not true of most couples today.
If you don't want it, leave it out of the ceremony. And if you
choose, walk down the aisle by yourself. Not every bride has a
father, nor does every bride like her father. Some brides say going
solo made them feel like royalty.
3. The bride's father must sit in the first pew with the bride's
mother, even if they hate the sight of each other.
In a perfect world, divorced mothers and fathers would overcome
their loathing so all could be sweetness and light on their child's
wedding day.
Let's get real. Divorce is a 1990s fact of life. When divorced
parents get along, it's wonderful. Mom and Dad can sit together,
one big happy parental unit on the first pew.
This changes if stepparents are in the picture. Mom and her
new husband should sit in the first pew. Dad and his new wife should sit in the next pew.
If they do not get along, Dad and his new wife should sit even
farther back in the church far enough away to avoid bodily harm.
(All of this goes for the groom's parents, too.)
So who's counting? Unlike many other areas of modern life, there
is no rule that says a wedding party must have equality.
An equal number of men and women makes a pretty picture at the
altar and makes life easier for the wedding consultant but this
is not mandatory. You can have all men, all women even all
children if you like.
If a father can be a best man, there is no reason a mother can't
be matron of honor. It's a beautiful, loving gesture.
The only drawback is if the wedding is a very large one. The
mother of the bride and the matron of honor each may have so many
duties that it could be a burden to ask your mom to undertake both
jobs.
But if a bride's mom is extremely organized and is her best
friend, she should ask her.
If a father can escort his daughter, there is no reason a mother
can't. More and more brides are asking their moms to make the
stroll down the aisle instead of bench-warming the first pew. This
custom is borrowed from Jewish ceremonies, where both parents
escort the bride and groom.
The littler they are, the cuter they are and the more they can
disrupt your ceremony! The same goes for ring bearers.
Flower girls have refused to go down the aisle or toss their
petals. One little ring bearer grabbed the flower girl's basket,
dumped the petals in a pile and began jumping on it.
The only criterion for the job of flower girl or ring bearer
should be how important a child is to you. If the little girl or
little boy is someone you want to include, by all means do it, no
matter how old or young the child is.
No, the only requirement for being an attendant is a sincere
attachment to the bride or groom and the ability to pay for the
clothing.
I know of brides in their 20s who had bridesmaids in their 60s,
and the weddings were full of love and rejoicing.
It is a mystery to me why it is considered poor manners to have
a pregnant woman participate in a ceremony so full of fertility
symbols.
Traditionally, bridesmaids were young women who surrounded the
bride to confuse any evil spirits lurking about. Perhaps a
bridesmaid had to be fleet-footed, and it's hard to run when you
are pregnant.
I see no problems with asking a friend who is with child, other
than logistical ones: She may have trouble fitting into her dress,
and she may feel uncomfortable standing for long periods of time.
10. There can be only one maid of honor and one matron of honor.
A bride may have two of either if she wishes. And she doesn't
have to limit herself to women.
And if either of your parents nudges you about wanting
grandchildren one more time ...
To be sure, the line between amicability and all-out war can be
thin where in-laws are concerned. With practice, though, experts
say, you can learn to get along ... and the sooner the better.
Intruding in-laws are a mainstay on the marital trouble list,
says Marlene Watson, a couples-and-family therapist in
Philadelphia.
Typically, she explains, one partner may feel that an in-law is
interfering and his or her spouse is not doing anything about it.
Then, to make matters worse, the spouse feels he or she is being
attacked by the partner and pressured by one or both sets of
parents.
The key to riding out most in-law conflicts is to act as a
united couple, Watson says. Both partners need to set up boundaries
and communicate them to the in-laws. This could mean asking your
mother not to call before 9:30 a.m. on weekends or telling your
father-in-law that your financial affairs are a private matter.
Yet many of these differences are arbitrary and not really
important, says Michael Ascher, a psychologist and professor of
psychiatry at Temple University School of Medicine. For instance,
he says, while a new bride may disapprove of her in-laws'
predinner-cocktail ritual, she can learn to accept that it isn't
tantamount to alcoholism.
In-law tensions may erupt as soon as the couple announces the
engagement. Parents may feel abandoned and experience anxiety about
the impending separation. There may be discomfort about
acknowledging their child's sexuality. They may fear adverse
changes in the family structure. Or differences in the new
son-in-law or daughter-in-law may be perceived as a threat or
rejection of their own values.
Particularly if the bride is older than her husband, his mother
may feel that her daughter-in-law is trying to usurp her role. Or a
new wife may become anxious that the undesirable qualities she
observes in her new father-in-law will be transferred to his son.
And don't overlook potential sibling-in-law problems, Watson says.
Before you meet your in-laws, have your fiance brief you about
their likes, dislikes and sensitivities. The added knowledge will
reduce the risk of your offending them and enable you to ask
questions that engage their interest. POTENTIAL SORE SPOTS 
If a couple pays for all the arrangements, they may have things
exactly as they wish, Watson says. If parents are financing the
affair, though, the couple should be prepared to compromise.
This year, the couple announced they were alternating: They
would spend Thanksgiving and Christmas Day with her family, and
Christmas Eve and Easter with his folks.
Another time when both had sisters celebrating birthdays on the
same day, the couple simply agreed to split up so each could attend
his or her own family's party.
The experts agree that it is wise to deal with your own parents
about sensitive issues such as financial requests or choosing baby
names, especially early in the marriage. Not only do you know your
parents' quirks, but any resulting anger and annoyance is more
likely to be forgiven and forgotten with you than with your spouse,
Ascher says.
Once you know your in-laws better, try to handle disagreements
yourself without putting your spouse in the middle. Find a tactful
way to ask that your mother-in-law call before dropping in. Or
state firmly that family-planning decisions are between you and
your husband.
Asking parents for money can set the stage for disputes about
how the gift is used and how you're living your life.
If one of your parents is making derogatory statements about
your spouse, your first priority is to your husband or wife. A
parent should be told that he or she doesn't have to love your
spouse, but must respect your choice.
Don't tolerate your spouse criticizing your parents, and don't
let your in-laws play you against your spouse.
Even if your family ignores your spouse in conversations and
activities, continue to include him or her in important events and
discussions. Maintain a separate relationship with your parents,
too, such as having lunch sometimes, Watson recommends.
The two women corresponded for about a year. Sexton gossiped
about the other patients in the seminar, and enjoyed sharing
confidences with her young acolyte. When Plunkett announced that
she had left her psychiatrist because he had divorced his wife and
refused to embark on an affair with her, Sexton no stranger to
the temptations of the therapist's couch reacted knowingly:
Sexton offered heartfelt congratulations when Plunkett published
poems in the Hudson Review and the American Scholar during the
seminar. And she didn't hesitate to criticize Plunkett's work more
firmly than that of the other patients'. Upon receiving one batch
of Plunkett's poems, Sexton wrote her:
That was the summer of the moon landing, and Plunkett sent
Sexton a poem about the event. In her last letter to her former
student, Sexton wrote:
In the fall of 1968, the poet Anne Sexton received an unexpected
invitation. An administrator at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass.
inquired if she might want to teach a weekly seminar for patients
there.
Sexton accepted the invitation. The McLean seminar lasted from
the fall of 1968 until the spring of 1969. Between 15 and 25
patients attended, irregularly, depending on their mental states.
Several hundred of the poems the patients wrote for the seminar are
stored in the Anne Sexton archive at the Ransom Center for the
Humanities at the University of Texas, where Sexton's daughter and
literary executor, Linda Gray Sexton, granted me permission to read
them. And, for the first time, several patients or relatives of
deceased patients have agreed to discuss the seminar and its impact
on their lives.
The call came in September of 1968, in a note from Margaret
Ball, the patients' librarian at McLean:
That the call came from McLean weighed heavily on Sexton's mind.
Sexton had always wanted to be a patient at McLean, but in her own
view, had never made the grade. McLean, a Harvard teaching
hospital, attracted well-to-do patients from all over the country.
 Bentley College volleyball standout Heidi Anderson had no
interest in waking up mornings and finding patches of her long
blond hair a victim of the chemotherapy that was so necessary and
so devastating clumped on the pillow.
She had no interest in dilly-dallying around about the whole
thing OK, maybe didn't quite realize the mess she was in and
urged the doctors to open her chest and insert that tube so she
could waste no time in getting her treatments and getting down to
the business of getting better.
The other day Heidi Anderson, Bentley graduate and leukemia
survivor, was out dress shopping for something to wear this weekend
for a dinner in Marco Island, Fla., where she will be honored as
the winner of the Honda Inspiration Award, presented each year to a
collegiate woman athlete who has overcome great physical adversity.
Her once straight blond hair grew back darker and more curly and
is long and she plans on growing it longer. She is two and a half
years out from the bone marrow transplant she received after it
became clear the chemotherapy wasn't going to take care of her
leukemia. She has heard that some doctors say that three years out
and you're considered cured, others that it's five years. And even
then they hedge and say you're 98 percent cured.
Numbers in the past couple of years have been more about beating
the odds the chance of survival was 30 percent originally, 30
percent again in the bone marrow transplant, but then there was a
chance of surviving the transplant and coming out of it with some
other ailment than they have been about the numbers that used to
matter. The number of kills she had as an outside hitter, the
number of service aces, the scores of games took a back seat.
She is living life the way she intended before leukemia
interrupted it for a year and a half. She graduated from Bentley
last month and in August starts her training with the Marriott
Corporation as an assistant controller. Her boyfriend, Matt Genest,
the one who cut her hair, the one she met on the first day freshmen
reported to Bentley, the one she borrowed the Berwick Academy
baseball cap from to cover her bald head also missed a year and a
half of school.
He moved in with her family in Jamul, Calif. to help when she
was sick. They both doubled up on courses to actually get out ahead
of schedule, considering the time they missed, and both graduated
with honors.
She was a key member of the Bentley volleyball last fall, was
elected captain by players who barely knew her and helped the team
to a semifinal finish in the Northeast 10 Conference, ironically
the same place they ended up days before her cancer ordeal began.
Anderson made the All Conference team as a freshman and helped
her team to the NCAA Northeast Regionals. She came back the next
season and coach Sandy Hoffmann asked her to be more of a team
leader. She was.
But as the season went on her joints ached more and more and she
became more and more sick. Doctors thought she might have a virus
and had her sit out late in the season. She talked her way into
playing in the conference tournament.
Monday, the doctor called and said she wanted Anderson to have
more tests with a specialist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center.
They borrowed a car and Genest drove her to the hospital that
evening. Later that night she was told she had leukemia, her
parents and younger sister flew in from California and soon she had
no hair, had a tube in her chest, wouldn't leave the hospital for
weeks and would be in treatment for months.
There were tough times ahead, though Anderson feels lucky she
didn't get nearly as sick in treatment as many people do. She has
been told she will not be able to have children.
There was the projected two years of chemotherapy in seven
phases and there was getting to the end of the fifth phase and
being told that the chemotherapy had been suppressed but not wiped
out and she needed the bone marrow transplant.
Both her sisters were a perfect match for a transplant and she
received her bone marrow from her older sister, Julia.
The transplant was a success and she got back to school in the
fall of 1996 and tried to get back to volleyball but was not yet
physically able. That was tough. So she served as kind of an
assistant coach.
She kept working on her strength and conditioning and last fall
was ready to go. Still, there were drawbacks. She did not have her
old leaping ability so was better suited for defensive work in the
back lines than up front.
Anderson had no doubts. She was determined to do so as she spent
her time in the hospital and charted her own medications and
treatments. As the cards and letters and jerseys from players at
Harvard and Alaska and dozens of other teams and players she had
come in contact with poured in. As she planned with doctors including Dr. Robin Joyce at Beth Israel who her mother, Pat, raves
about her return to Bentley and volleyball.
She turned 23 last Sunday and this Sunday evening in Florida,
Honda will recognize the way she came back.
TRIBUNAL (Rome) Seeking to limit the scope of an international
criminal court, The United States dismisses United Nations efforts
to create a fully independent prosecutor as `unrealistic and
unwise.` By Alessandra Stanley.
AIDS-IMMUNE (Undated) Scientists have visualized the precise
interactions between the AIDS virus and a human cell at the moment
of infection. The ultra-fine snapshot shows how the virus's probe
changes form as it snags, one after the other, its two targets on
the human cell's surface. The new information lays the basis for
designing new drugs and vaccines that strike at the virus during
its one moment of vulnerability, its change of shape while it moves
from its first to its second target. By Nicholas Wade.
BASEBALL-HEART (Boston) It's a rare but fatal danger in the
world of sports: A young athlete receives a sharp but fairly mild
blow on the chest, then collapses and dies. Researchers using pigs
to investigate this phenomenon, commotio cordis, have found that
there is a 15-millisecond period in the normal cardiac cycle where
a baseball thrown at 30 miles an hour can cause dangerous
ventricular fibrillation. By Philip J. Hilts.
DOLLAR-YEN (Washington) The Fed and the Bank of Japan stage a
surprise attack on the strong dollar, intervening in the
foreign-exchange market to sell the American currency and buy yen.
At midday, the dollar stood at 138.12 yen, well below its level of
143.47 yen in late New York trading Tuesday. Stocks rose on the
news, and Treasury bonds fell sharply. By David E. Sanger.
PRUDENTIAL-RESTRUCTURE (Undated) After paying heavy fines and
settlement costs arising from widespread accusations that it
cheated its customers, Prudential Life Insurance is now steering
through the New Jersey legislature a corporate restructuring plan
that consumer advocates say contains troubling loopholes. By Joseph
B. Treaster.
AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER A list of stories being considered by
New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at about 4:30 p.m. ET.
AM-FRONPAGE-NYT A description of the frontpage layout of the
first edition of The New York Times will move about 7:30 p.m. ET.
Like it or not, you're all linked now. You are historical soul
brothers. You are representatives of the two greatest dynasties in
world basketball history, and from this moment on, it will be
impossible to discuss one without mentioning the other. What you
have accomplished is in the books, subject to perusal as long as
they play this sport on this planet.
The Boston Celtics once won 11 championships in 13 seasons. The
run began on Saturday, April 13, 1957, in Boston Garden with a
stirring 125-123 double-overtime victory over the St. Louis Hawks,
and it ended Monday, May 5, 1969, in the Fabulous Forum with an
upset 108-106 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers. There was one
playing link between Title No. 1 and Title No. 11 Bill Russell.
The Chicago Bulls have won six championships in the last eight
seasons. Their run began Wednesday, June 12, 1991, in the Great
Western Forum with a 108-101 win over the Los Angeles Lakers and it
was expanded Sunday, June 14, 1998, in the Delta Center with an
87-86 win over the Utah Jazz. There have been two playing links Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen.
The Bulls have absolutely no idea what life was like in
Russell's time. The Bulls have never taken an overnight train. They
don't scrunch themselves into cabs. They don't change planes. They
don't stay two to a room in second-rate hotels with laughably small
meal money.
The Bulls, like most NBA clubs, are a team of millionaires. The
Celtics worried about lining up offseason jobs.
The Bulls have a palatial locker room and their own practice
facility. The Celtics used to dress in a slanted locker room in the
old, old Garden in which the tall guys stood at the top of the roof
slant and the small guys dressed at the bottom. Lockers? How about
nails? They practiced in such places as the Cambridge YMCA and
Tobin Gym after begging for the time.
All these differences make it far easier for the Bulls to play
at their best. The flip side is that the old Celtics had far fewer
distractions. They never had off-day press conferences. They had no
endorsement deals. They were inherently hungrier and more dedicated
because, well, just because. So it was easier for them to focus on
the task at hand.
There are many ways of evaluating the differences between the
Russell Celtics and the Jordan Bulls. Here are a few:
In order to win his first nine titles, Russell and his mates had
to play two series a year. Win eight games and you're a champ. In
order to win their six, Michael and Scottie have had to win four
series annually. They need to win almost twice as many games (15)
in order to get their rings.
It stands to reason that the more games you play, the more peril
exists. Just because you're supposed to win doesn't mean you're
going to.
Russell began play in an eight-team league. The best 80
basketball players in the world were concentrated on those teams.
Even the worst teams had, in the context, very good players in
reserve. When he won championship No. 11, the NBA still had only 14
teams.
The Bulls' championship run began seven years ago in a 27-team
league. It's now up to 29. Almost no one has a decent bench.
Centers are scarce. The talent is pathetically dispersed, and some
of the best players choose to stay in Europe.
Only Houston hardheads would deny that the Rockets won a pair of
championships (1994, 1995) that would have been Chicago's had
Jordan not taken his famous sabbatical.
Fine. But does anyone outside St. Louis believe the Hawks would
have won in 1958 if Russell had not injured his ankle? Twelve out
of 13 sounds pretty impressive.
We respect the Russell Celtics because they knew how to win the
so-called Big Game. Russell played in 11 winner-take-all games, 10
seventh games (five in the Finals) and one fifth. He was 11-0, and
in those games, he averaged 18 points and 30 rebounds.
Jordan has a sparse Game 7 resume, which is to his credit. His
teams have been so dominant that there have been only two seventh
games in the seven-year Chicago run. They are, of course, 2-0.
So hear this, and hear it well: William F. Russell would come
out of nowhere to block a Michael Jordan shot just as easily and
just as frequently as he did to Elgin Baylor, Jerry West, and Oscar
Robertson, to name three of the many NBA players of the '60s who
could step into the NBA today to make All-Star teams.
And hear this: Sam Jones was a better guard than any current NBA
backcourt player not named Michael Jordan. Yeah, that includes Gary
Payton, Penny Hardaway, and anyone else you can name.
And this: Before there was Scottie Pippen, there was John
Havlicek, who never had to come out of a game and who, at age 37,
shut off a prime-of-life Dr. J in the 1977 playoffs.
The big difference between the '60s and the '90s is the coaching
approach, not necessarily the inherent athletic ability. Everything
is geared to defense today. In Russell's third championship season,
1960, the Celtics averaged 120 shots a game. In Jordan's six
championship seasons, the Chicago annual average is 86. The fewest
shots averaged by a Russell title team were 101 in 1968-69. The
game concept was entirely different.
The modern defenses are more complex and sophisticated. Russell Co. had scouting reports and a memory bank. Jordan and Friends
have videotapes and computer printout tendencies. Meanwhile,
offenses are more cautious the fast break has almost disappered
as an art form and the players, however athletic, are woefully
incomplete once you take away their Plan A. The old guys were more
well-rounded basketball players. The modern defenses are combating
more and more players who really don't know how to play. Have
Russell anchor one of today's defenses and he would be even more
devastating. How about that?
 Bill Russell and Michael Jordan are the two greatest
demonstrated winners in American team sport history. On sport's Mt.
Olympus, they occupy the two finest houses.
What was the poetry like? Several hundred poems are sitting in
the Sexton archive in Texas, mostly unread until now. A few of the
poems are very good, and were later published in literary journals
like the Yale Review, the Hudson Review, and the American Scholar.
Most of the poems were student quality, some good enough to publish
in the hospital newsletter. And some were just blots, words
scrawled on paper by men and women shocked, both literally and
figuratively, onto the verges of catatonia.
Perhaps better than her student Plunkett, Sexton, who had
already attempted suicide, understood how close to the precipice
some of her students were standing. Several wrote about their
suicide watches. One not-untypical fragment:
Perhaps inevitably, the intensely self-critical and depressive
Sexton viewed the seminar as a failure. In December 1973 she
gathered some of the McLean poems and notes into a manila folder
and scrawled a note in felt-tipped pen on the outside cover:
That's not all. He compared what they say (begin itals) now (end
itals) to what they said (begin itals) then, (end itals), in the
heady days when Mt. Monica erupted and the scandal-mongers among
the media pack went berserk. Is there a more apt term for the media
meltdown dissected so pitilessly by Brill?
And an ugly picture it is. From the malevolent Lucianne
Goldberg, book agent to the duplicitous Linda Tripp, betrayer of
Monica's crush and confidences, to the incredibly-plugged-in
Michael Isikoff of Newsweek.
The early line on Brill's 30,000-word autopsy of this D.C.
dustup was that Kenneth Starr, right-wing tobacco lawyer, impaled
himself again with his admission that he and his agents have
routinely leaked secret stuff to reporters in the scandal circuit.
But having read the first two-thirds of Brill's rehash (the rest
was lost in faxland, alas), I'd suggest the far more damaging stuff
is what comes out of the mouths of the players the Clinton-haters
like Goldberg and Tripp, their lawyers, agents, and handmaidens in
the prosecutorial corps, and the journalists themselves.
Newsweek, for decades a smouldering second fiddle to Time
magazine, made a commitment at the corporate level to play up the
scandal. Isikoff and Howard Fineman, a Newsweek political writer,
wangled themselves lucrative cash deals with television networks
who saw, in an age of deconstructing viewership, a way to slash
their way back to profitability. Just when the O.J. trial left the
cable network news people sucking wind, Monica pops up to do for
kneepads and dry cleaners what O.J. did for bloody gloves and Bruno
Magli shoes.
The question for Newsweek editors is: Was Isikoff ahead on this
story because he was part of the Get-Clinton conspiracy? Do
Newsweek's superiors countenance this kind of hanky-panky? Isikoff
was meeting regularly with Goldberg and Tripp, he was colluding
with prosecutor Starr on just how to time disclosures to exert
maximum pressure on witnesses Starr was trying to rubber-hose into
betraying Clinton. It smells like an Arkansas hog farm.
Where were the Newsweek editors? Why didn't some bosses at ABC
and NBC rein in their heavy-breathing, impeachment-predicting
yarn-spinners? Why did the once-proud Big 3 network news divisions
plunge so readily in the sheepdip? Are the cable news networks so
shabby that they'll hype their ratings so crudely? Yes! in the case
of CNBC, MSNBC, and Fox, at least. They lured viewers with
half-baked fantasies about oral sex in the Oval Office. What
happened to the standards? (begin itals) What standards? (end
itals) TV journalism no longer has any standards, networks
included. And Newsweek has a lot of explaining to do.
For readers who have long suspected that many media
personalities were hyping the various Clinton scandals for less
than pure reasons, Brill's article is a goldmine. Read it and weep
for the shoddy business that so much of Washington's celebrity
journalism has become.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
WOODWARD-IMPACT (Boston) -- When the first reports appeared
about Matthew Eappen's death, the case against Louise Woodward was
similar to OJ Simpson's: It captivated two nations; exposed sharp
divides issues such as working mothers, child care and the flawed
judicial system; and it had enough real-life high drama to eclipse
most soap operas. By Peter Canellos (2 takes)
MCNAMARA-COLUMN (Undated) No judgment of any court will ever
deem the Woodward case over for Deborah and Sunil Eappen. By Eileen
McNamara.
NOLAN-COLUMN (Undated) -- When books are written by the likes of
Dick Morris with the preposterous theme of the
hired-hand-as-genius, loyalty is as rare as laughter. By Martin F.
Nolan.
SEXTON-MAD-POETS (Undated) -- Less than six years before she
committed suicide, Anne Sexton taught a series of poetry seminars
at a Massachusetts mental hospital. Now, for the first time, some
of the patients who attended talk about it. By Alex Beam. (2 takes)
SEXTON-PLUNKETT (Undated) -- When Anne Sexton came to teach at
McLean Hospital, Eugenia Plunkett had already been in and out of
the hospital for almost five years. By Alex Beam. 750 words.
MAGAZINE-REVIEW (Undated) To the veritable haberdashery of
hats worn with distinction by Jules Feiffer cartoonist,
screenwriter, playwright, novelist we can now add one more:
editor. By Don Aucoin.
PICTURETEL-CEO (Undated) -- Last year was a disaster for
PictureTel. Everything that could go wrong, did go wrong. Now it's
up to Bruce Bond, the company's new CEO, to turn the company
around. By Joann Muller. 1000 words.
HKN-CUP-NOTES (Washington) The NHL's general managers are
recommending some key rule changes that would be implemented during
the 1998-99 season if approved at the Board of Governors meeting
June 25.
Still, Billington sometimes manages to go beyond the obligatory the Hermitage, the Kremlin, the larger-than-life rulers from
Catherine the Great to Lenin. He takes us to a tiny, pristine
country church, and to the grandiose Church of the Transfiguration,
with its bouquet of 22 onion domes and its 30,000 hand-hewn wooden
shingles. The Church of the Transfiguration is on a remote island
where it couldn't have been seen by many: It was built for God, not
man.
Enormity and excess are among the themes Billington treats in
this televised tapestry. Take bells. In Christianized Russia, they
conveyed the Lord's message, and because their power only extended
as far as their sound, they got bigger and bigger until Russia had
the biggest bell in the world, which is still ensconced in Moscow's
Kremlin. It has never been rung, because it is too heavy to get off
the ground.
Icons were the first art that Russia made her own, and it's with
icons that Billington begins, showing us mournful images of a grave
and tender mother of God cheek-to-cheek with a Christ who is a
miniature adult rather than a child. One of the show's strengths is
the chance it gives us to see icons not as we would in a museum static, hung against a white wall, behind glass but in use, being
paraded in streets, being prayed to.
The icons that survived Stalin are often in sad shape, covered
in soot from worshippers' candles. While the fall of Communism
meant that icons could be freely exhibited once again, there is
little money to restore them. Skipping through the centuries,
Billington notes how important ancient icons were to such early
20th century giants of Russian art as Kandinsky and Tatlin. And he
shows contemporary icon painters at work, grinding precious lapis
and malachite into rich pigments bound with the yolks of eggs. The
desire of these artists whose lives have seen so much upheaval to
make art that will last a thousand years is a touching contrast
with their peers in the West, many of whom don't mind making art
that is short-lived either by intent or sloppy construction.
The two great women empresses who ruled Russia in the 18th
century, Elizabeth and Catherine the Great, turned the capital into
a glittering stage set. There was misery backstage, though all
those millions of people living in poverty and ignorance. The
nightmare of their hopelessness found expression in the writing of
Gogol.
Music and film are Billington's focus for the third and final
episode, Moussorgsky and Eisenstein his stars. While Tchaikovksy
and other composers were looking toward the West, Moussorgsky was
peering deep into the Russian soul. It's perhaps this search for
the most Russian examples of Russian art, especially art linked to
Russian history, that leads Billington to devote precious time to
realist artists like Ilya Repin, painter of impoverished peasants,
and to all but ignore great movements like Constructivism.
While he doesn't come out and say that the Russia of today is a
mess, neither does Billington try to construct a happy ending for
his series. Near the end is a particularly dismal image. In front
of the palaces of the Hermitage, one of the world's most glorious
architectural ensembles, is a giant inflatable plastic toy palace,
for people to bounce on.
Since then, the U.S. armed forces have been downsized
dramatically and stretched thin as they have been dispatched to
trouble spots around the globe. But the civil-military programs
have continued, despite questions about how carefully they have
been monitored.
Although most projects have been short-range, low-budget items,
a major exception can be found on remote Annette Island in
southwestern Alaska. There, four branches of the armed services are
at work on a five-year project costing at least $20 million to
build 14 miles of gravel road, which the state has promised to pave
later for an estimated $15 million. The road will connect the tiny
Tsimshian Indian village of Metlakatla, population 1,600, to the
landing site for a planned ferry service that would be less than a
mile to the mainland, compared to the 15-mile trip now.
This town on the only Indian reservation in the state had
unsuccessfully lobbied the federal and state governments for
decades to build the road, until they hooked up with the Department
of Defense. There they had a crucial ally in Sen. Ted Stevens, a
Republican who chairs the Senate Appropriations Committee and its
defense subcommittee, making him the most powerful senator when it
comes to deciding how the Pentagon will spend money. Moreover,
Stevens is famous for steering federal dollars in the direction of
his home state.
The Alaska road project, costing more than $5 million last year,
consumed nearly one-third of the $16 million annual budget for
civil-military projects for all states. But Raffetto bristled at
the suggestion that the project was pork-barrel spending for a road
that will easily cost $22,000 per island resident.
Operation Alaska Road has required a major logistics effort,
including building a base camp of 37 buildings to house and feed
300 persons, including the National Guard and reservists from as
far away as Missouri and Massachusetts, who are shuttled in and out
on two-week shifts for their annual training exercise.
Already the undertaking has brought in 850 Marines, who spent 23
days on ships sailing to and from the island from their base in San
Diego. Bringing in heavy equipment, including a rock crusher,
five-ton dump trucks and a bulldozer, required three deliveries by
the military's biggest plane, the C-5 Galaxy. The planes flew in
from a National Guard base in New York at a cost of $12,605 per
flight hour, not counting the expense for the seven-member crew.
All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category. If you
have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox News
Service, at 404-526-5456.
KELSO-COLUMN AUSTIN Perhaps no one in America has sacrificed
as much for marital relations in America as Bill Bradford II, one
of the inventors of the Johnny-Light. Two years ago, Bradford, a
resident of Burleson near Fort Worth, gave up a $90,000-a-year job
as an electrical engineer to market the device. The Johnny-Light
warns women in the middle of the night if some bonehead has left
the toilet seat up. (Kelso, Austin American-Statesman) Palm Beach
Post) MOVED.
CSIBLEY-COLUMN ATLANTA Ellen Bryan Mrs. Wright Bryan died at the age of 93 years. It's funny the things that stick in
your mind about a person you don't know well, but cherish like you
cherish unexpected laughter and a crazy, odd meeting. Mrs. Bryan's
husband was editor of The Atlanta Journal, a newspaper we on The
Atlanta Constitution considered our unlikely, unloved competition.
But we did like the Bryans and rejoice in Ellen's humor and
goodwill.(Sibley, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.
MCCARTY-COLUMN We live in an enlightened age, right? More
women are running companies, fighting fires, mending bones. So
what's wrong with Hollywood? There women are given the boot just
about the time they develop the grace, wisdom and strength that
truly makes them attractive. (McCarty, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.
REAL-LIFE So, let that Giuliani fellow worry about all those
folks up in New York City, the ones who need a hug and a smile and
a weekend in the country. I've got enough to keep me going right
here. And that's no exaggeration. (Minor, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
WOODWARD-IMPACT (Boston) -- When the first reports appeared
about Matthew Eappen's death, the case against Louise Woodward was
similar to OJ Simpson's: It captivated two nations; exposed sharp
divides issues such as working mothers, child care and the flawed
judicial system; and it had enough real-life high drama to eclipse
most soap operas. By Peter Canellos (2 takes)
MCNAMARA-COLUMN (Undated) No judgment of any court will ever
deem the Woodward case over for Deborah and Sunil Eappen. By Eileen
McNamara.
NOLAN-COLUMN (Undated) -- When books are written by the likes of
Dick Morris with the preposterous theme of the
hired-hand-as-genius, loyalty is as rare as laughter. By Martin F.
Nolan.
SEXTON-MAD-POETS (Undated) -- Less than six years before she
committed suicide, Anne Sexton taught a series of poetry seminars
at a Massachusetts mental hospital. Now, for the first time, some
of the patients who attended talk about it. By Alex Beam. (2 takes)
SEXTON-PLUNKETT (Undated) -- When Anne Sexton came to teach at
McLean Hospital, Eugenia Plunkett had already been in and out of
the hospital for almost five years. By Alex Beam. 750 words.
MAGAZINE-REVIEW (Undated) To the veritable haberdashery of
hats worn with distinction by Jules Feiffer cartoonist,
screenwriter, playwright, novelist we can now add one more:
editor. By Don Aucoin.
PICTURETEL-CEO (Undated) -- Last year was a disaster for
PictureTel. Everything that could go wrong, did go wrong. Now it's
up to Bruce Bond, the company's new CEO, to turn the company
around. By Joann Muller. 1000 words.
HKN-NHL-NOTES (Washington) The NHL's general managers are
recommending some key rule changes that would be implemented during
the 1998-99 season if approved at the Board of Governors meeting
June 25.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,
mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open by
denying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed pool
that is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite for
Central Texans. In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judge
took literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,
ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inch
salamander, which lives only in the local springs. (Copelin, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.
NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; Selective
Service registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in a
game; hurricane names; and more. Gleaned from the week's news Q A. (Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
STREET-MINISTER RIVIERA BEACH About a year ago, after a
prophetic vision, Rev. Lessye Charlow set out to drive the drug
trade from her street. A minister for 45 years, she knows only one
way how. Several evenings a week, she wields a second-hand crucifix
and a personalized Bible, with the Red Sea miracle flagged by a
yellow Post-It note, and marches down the middle of West 33rd,
filling dealers and admirers alike with dread. (Trontz, Palm Beach
Post) MOVED.
FOOD-COBBLER Cobblers and crisps are two of the best and
easiest ways to showcase our favorite summer fruits, including
peaches, blackberries and cherries. (Walker, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially next
week, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read. We
wanted more than just a collection of recipes. (Heller, Dayton
Daily News) MOVED.
BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearby
Dusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is the
least familiar of German styles in the United States. It's a
different kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light as
a sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical
7-ounce glass with no ornamentation. (Skube, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swap
looking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook and
manual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948. Luckily, there
were a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyer
mixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe. And
readers Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reported
their mixers were still working. (Recipe follows.) (Walker, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline the
entertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28
in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, who
was invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,
will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site of
the festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18. EMBARGOED FOR
6/18.
YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled bar
to bar at night. This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City. Ybor
City draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife. Nightclubs are
shoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, like
cheapskates at an open bar. That wasn't the case about 20 years ago
when Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-night
neighborhood. (Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up in
Ybor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a
1-mile walking tour a lively excursion. A volunteer guide, she'll
tell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla. This small town built next to the Gulf
of Mexico gives contradictory first impressions. You see a
Victorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas and
picket fences. But on closer inspection it looks like a movie set
too perfect to be a real town. In fact, Seaside, which was the
location for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, is
not historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage. (Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla. So what do people do
in this Architectural Digest-perfect town? One would think the Gulf
of Mexico would be the main attraction. No, indeed. Houses are what
draw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,
who come here to admire and photograph the real estate. (Blackerby,
Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla. I'm on the Suwannee. The
houseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the river
immortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfect
place to remember old daydreams. Our cruise begins at Miller's
Marina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into the
gulf on Florida's West Coast. The lower area of the river is a
national wildlife refuge. (Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,
mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open by
denying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed pool
that is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite for
Central Texans. In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judge
took literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,
ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inch
salamander, which lives only in the local springs. (Copelin, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.
NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; Selective
Service registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in a
game; hurricane names; and more. Gleaned from the week's news Q A. (Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
STREET-MINISTER RIVIERA BEACH About a year ago, after a
prophetic vision, Rev. Lessye Charlow set out to drive the drug
trade from her street. A minister for 45 years, she knows only one
way how. Several evenings a week, she wields a second-hand crucifix
and a personalized Bible, with the Red Sea miracle flagged by a
yellow Post-It note, and marches down the middle of West 33rd,
filling dealers and admirers alike with dread. (Trontz, Palm Beach
Post) MOVED.
FOOD-COBBLER Cobblers and crisps are two of the best and
easiest ways to showcase our favorite summer fruits, including
peaches, blackberries and cherries. (Walker, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.
HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially next
week, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read. We
wanted more than just a collection of recipes. (Heller, Dayton
Daily News) MOVED.
BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearby
Dusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is the
least familiar of German styles in the United States. It's a
different kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light as
a sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical
7-ounce glass with no ornamentation. (Skube, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swap
looking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook and
manual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948. Luckily, there
were a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyer
mixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe. And
readers Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reported
their mixers were still working. (Recipe follows.) (Walker, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline the
entertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28
in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, who
was invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,
will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site of
the festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18. EMBARGOED FOR
6/18.
YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled bar
to bar at night. This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City. Ybor
City draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife. Nightclubs are
shoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, like
cheapskates at an open bar. That wasn't the case about 20 years ago
when Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-night
neighborhood. (Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up in
Ybor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a
1-mile walking tour a lively excursion. A volunteer guide, she'll
tell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla. This small town built next to the Gulf
of Mexico gives contradictory first impressions. You see a
Victorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas and
picket fences. But on closer inspection it looks like a movie set
too perfect to be a real town. In fact, Seaside, which was the
location for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, is
not historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage. (Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla. So what do people do
in this Architectural Digest-perfect town? One would think the Gulf
of Mexico would be the main attraction. No, indeed. Houses are what
draw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,
who come here to admire and photograph the real estate. (Blackerby,
Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla. I'm on the Suwannee. The
houseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the river
immortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfect
place to remember old daydreams. Our cruise begins at Miller's
Marina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into the
gulf on Florida's West Coast. The lower area of the river is a
national wildlife refuge. (Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
DAYTON, Ohio A ritual of summer is to stretch out beside the
pool or on the beach, or curl up on the patio or porch with a good
book. For those who read with a mixing spoon in one hand and
those who just love to eat the book in their laps is often a
cookbook.
The lazy days of summer arrive officially next week, so we went
looking for cookbooks that are a good read. We wanted more than
just a collection of recipes. Some that we found are interwoven
with the memories of life. Others focus on learning the techniques
rather than the precise ingredients that make a great dish. One is
a biography.
Though the tidal wave of low-fat books continues, there are none
in this list. These books may be a light read, but they certainly
don't qualify as entertainment.
However, the fascination with Italian cookery continues. Two
books this season focus on life and food in the Sicilian-American
communities, one in the Little Italy of Manhattan and the other in
Brooklyn.
Here is a bunch to put in a bookbag when you go to the beach or
back yard:
E The Man Who Ate Everything, by Jeffrey Steingarten (Knopf,
$27.50). If irreverence is your bag, pick up this book by the food
critic of Vogue magazine. Don't expect recipes, though there are a
few tucked in peripherally, much the way some mystery writers do
these days.
Each free-standing chapter is perfect for a summer read on the
porch swing. The eclectic mix of recipes, from American apple pie
and butterscotch nut ice cream to chocolate granita and grilled
eel, may or may not tempt you to cook, but eaters will savor the
chase.
You don't have to be Italian or have roots in Brooklyn to enjoy
peering through this window of life into the Italian ghetto of
Brooklyn at the beginning of this century. Raised in a house where
Grandfather did the cooking, Schiavelli writes of a world where the
families were Sicilian first, Brooklynites second and Americans
only a distant third. He writes of their rituals of life that give
meaning to the food, and the recipes. Chicken soup is not just
soup, it is the specific meal served to the family taking care of
children during a funeral service. Veal cutlets were the staple at
the Men's Club and fried fish the essentials of Christmas Eve in
Bruculinu . It is a book with soul.
For a slightly different look on the world, pick up Mangia,
Little Italy! Secrets from a Sicilian Family Kitchen , by Francesca
Romina (Chronicle, $18.95 paperback), which is based in lower
Manhattan's Little Italy section, adjacent to Chinatown. Romina
also interweaves stories and family recipes.
From my view, Reichl is the most talented writer among newspaper
food critics, so this is a good read. Just don't expect insights
into the restaurant or reviewing businesses. A few recipes are
scattered through the memoir, none of them her mother's.
E The Perfect Recipe : Getting It Right Every Time, by Pam
Anderson ($27, Houghton-Mifflin) is a good choice for serious cooks
who have yet to subscribe to Cook's Illustrated magazine. Anderson
is is executive editor of the magazine known to foodies for its
exhaustive testing, revising and retesting of recipes, with
perfection in mind. Much of the material appeared in Cook's, where
they kitchen trials range from roasting 40 turkeys or 20 prime ribs
just to find the answers. Readers will find out why brining a
turkey produces the best Thanksgiving bird, and why the milk goes
in before the butter for perfect mashed potatoes.
E Great Pies and Tarts, by Carole Walter (Potter, $35). Don't
just cut to the recipes. Even if you are confident of your
pie-baking skills, be sure to browse the first 100 pages of this
book, particularly the chapter devoted to technique.
The tips alone from this respected cooking teacher are worth the
price of the book. Did you know that old eggs separate more easily
than fresh eggs? That cream close to the expiration date will whip
better than very fresh cream? That a sifter should never be washed?
That citrus zest that has been finely grated will be more pungent
than zest that has been minced?
The first part of the book is fairly encyclopedic but then come
the recipes. The array of pastry recipes is tempting, from toasted
coconut pie pastry or pine nut pastry to cookie-and-nut crusts made
with everything from biscotti or amaretti to ginger snaps. Basics
such as apple and lemon meringue pie are included, but this teacher
stretches the pastry imagination to put a sweet risotto filling in
an almond crust. Very precise instructions make it easy for even a
novice to succeed with the recipes.
E Born to Grill, An American Celebration by Cheryl Alters
Jamison and Bill Jamison (Harvard Common Press, $27.95) is the one
major grilling book of the season, and it's one of the best choices
if a collection of recipes is all you're after.
Moving from the world of slow, wood-smoked barbecues in their
bestselling Smoke Spice , the authors now explore the realm of
open fire grilling. Big flavors dominate the recipes in this book.
It's a good choice for a last minute gift for Father's Day. Maybe
he'll read it and have something new for the Fourth of July.
AUSTIN Perhaps no one in America has sacrificed as much for
marital relations in America as Bill Bradford II, one of the
inventors of the Johnny-Light.
This year Estes switched to a stronger grip, turning his hands
to the right and his game up several notches. He made the change
without using instruction from a swing coach. Estes now wishes
someone had advised him earlier in his career to use a stronger
grip, which produces right-to-left shots that tend to carry farther
than the left-to-right shots from a weak grip.
Estes ranks ninth in scoring average, 70.04 strokes per round.
He has made 15 cuts in 16 events. He tied for second at Bay Hill in
March and finished third at Greensboro in April.
Even so, he is not satisfied, particulary with his putting.
Though he ranks 20th in that category, Estes said he needs to
become better to elevate his game.
It was not those putts that cost Estes a victory this year,
though. At Greensboro, he led by one shot with two holes left but
made bogey at both, missing four-foot putts at each.
So Estes will now try crosshanded putting, placing his left hand
lower than the right. Some golfers say that enables them to move
their putter down the line more easily. Proponents of crosshanded
putting say that the conventional grip right hand below left is
less steady, because the left wrist can break down, producing putts
that pull to the left.
NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,
please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGit
holding catdgory. If you need assistance in setting this up, please
call IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.
Penders, who resigned under pressure at Texas on April 2, would
replace Mike Jarvis, who recently was hired by St. John's.
If Penders does become coach, he can leave his box of tools
behind this time. Penders, renowned as a Mr. Fix-It in college
basketball, turned losing programs into winners at Rhode Island and
Texas. He would start on higher ground at George Washington. The
Colonials were 152-90 in eight seasons under Jarvis, including 24-9
last season. They were 11-5 in the Atlantic-10 Conference, tied for
first in the West Division. Four starters return from that team. If
there is an adjustment period, it might be because Penders, who
prefers up-tempo basketball, inherits a team with more size than
quickness, one accustomed to a half-court game.
George Washington made four NCAA tournament appearances under
Jarvis, reaching the third round in 1993 and losing in the first
round in '94, '96 and '98.
When Penders went to Rhode Island from Fordham in 1986, he
inherited a program that was 42-97 the previous five seasons. Rhode
Island finished 20-10 in Penders' first season and 28-7 the next,
reaching the third round of the 1988 NCAA tournament before losing
to Duke by one point.
That performance earned Penders the head coach's job at Texas
vacated by Bob Weltlich, who went 77-98 in six seasons and was
fired in 1988.
Penders was 208-110 at Texas, winning more games than any
Longhorns coach. Texas, which had not been to the NCAA tournament
since 1979, went eight times in Penders' 10 years. His tournament
record was 10-8.
Penders resigned under pressure less than a month after four
players complained to Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds about verbal
abuse by the coach and lack of improvement in their games. Penders
was also under heat because an academic report for freshman Luke
Axtell was faxed to radio station KVET-AM by assistant coach Eddie
Oran in violation of privacy law.
Oran took responsibility for faxing the report, saying in a
written statement that he did it of his own volition. Oran has not
been available to comment on the matter, and Penders said he had no
knowledge that his assistant was going to fax the report.
HOUSTON An hour before a recent game, Astros owner Drayton
McLane, a county judge, the mayor and even a pseudo-commissioner
gathered in the bowels of the creaky, old Astrodome for what was
described as a major annoucement to secure the team's stability.
McLane, Bud Selig and friends did so much strutting you
half-expected the buttons on their shirts to fly off into the
audience.
The officials revealed the team's signing of a 30-year, ironclad
lease for the club's new stadium with 42,000 seats, a grass field
and a retractable roof that will retract, we suppose, on the last
day of the season if the temperature dips below 90.
Of course, it will also have 63 luxury boxes closer to the
field, better amenities, charter seat licenses, a ritzy venue
attractive to free agents and, you can be sure, a new name by the
time the $229 million park opens in 2000.
The Ballpark at Union Station, its current tag, sounds quaint in
the same manner of Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Rather, it will
until McLane sells the naming rights to Enron or Compaq or anyone
else with a spare $40 mil or so.
What Wednesday's news meant, besides the fact that the Astros
won't be moving to Northern Virginia, Round Rock or anywhere else
until at least 2031, is that McLane's pockets just got a little
deeper.
That could be telling, particularly in the area of pitching to
shore up a fragile staff that just got weaker with Mike Hampton's
stay on the disabled list. New stadiums and high-priced talent go
hand in hand, or arm in arm. Is there any wonder that Houston's
Darryl Kile defected in the off-season for $24 million over three
years to Colorado, where the air is thin but the crowds are thick?
Chances are you won't see the Astros pull off the type of deal
to bring Curt Schilling or Randy Johnson to town, but it might free
up McLane to shell out for Pete Harnisch or Bret Saberhagen before
the July 31 trading deadline. Both of those, however, are more
suspect than saviors. Same for the usual late- summer cast of
castoffs like Mike Morgan or Bob Tewksbury.
Halama, a rakish lefty, was overwhelmed in his first stint with
the Astros to start the season but has recovered nicely in the
minors with a 6-1 record, 3.15 earned run average and six walks in
54 innings. Elarton has won nine games and given up only 71 hits in
92 innings. But I'd send them both packing in a New Orleans minute
to get Johnson.
Smith, though, sounds like a man who prefers to stand pat, in
part because the team's $39 million payroll is still more bloated
than McLane desires after $100 million of red ink in six years.
Hampton, out with a strained groin, is expected to miss only two
starts. Shane Reynolds is 5-1 over his last seven starts with a
2.56 ERA. Until Tuesday's seven-walk game, Pete Schourek has
pitched more than adequately, and Sean Bergman has an outstanding
3.00 ERA.
Assuming Hampton rebounds with no dropoff, the Astros certainly
have enough pitching to hold off the Cubs, Brewers and surprising
Pirates in the Central. But it's doubtful they can best the Braves'
staff of Cy Youngs without an in- season transfusion.
Amen to that. After all, who in March would have dared think
Jose Lima would become the National League's first six-game winner
in May? The animated, 25-year-old right-hander threw seven strong,
fist-pumping innings Wednesday and Houston rallied for a 6-5 win.
He was right on both counts. His offense, even with a struggling
Jeff Bagwell, has been better than good. And his pitching has been
incredible, its current 3.54 ERA the third-lowest in the league.
Dierker could even deserve early manager of the year
consideration, given Bagwell's year and a pitching staff
three-fifths of which was lost to injury and free agency. Ramon
Garcia and Chris Holt have been disabled all season. Garcia's
probably done and Holt won't be available until at least late
August.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Tired of scanning the tabloids while
waiting in line at the supermarket? Next time, try scanning your
groceries.
Anne O'Connor did Wednesday morning. In a few minutes, she
scanned $31.02 in granola bars, ice cream and other groceries and
got a printed bill. The price of each item was displayed on a
screen and read off by a silky voice.
Winn-Dixie opened its first self-checkout lanes in South Florida
on June 4 at its store west of Boynton Beach, at Jog and Hypoluxo
roads, and invited reporters in Wednesday to see them in operation.
The store, which opened April 30, got the lanes first because
executives of the Jacksonville-based chain believe customers in the
burgeoning Boynton suburbs would be more receptive.
Terry Walsh, Winn-Dixie marketing director in South Florida,
said there still will be lanes with cashiers. But self-checkout
lanes including the three at the west Boynton store give antsy
customers in long lines an option to do it themselves. To pay, they
take printed bills to a central cashier.
Self-checkout lanes already operate at 16 Tampa, Orlando and
Jacksonville Winn-Dixies. Two more stores in Palm Beach County and
one in Broward will have them by the end of December. The company
won't say where. Outside of Winn-Dixie, only two other chains AP
in the Northeast and Finast in the Midwest use them.
The system works like this: Groceries are placed one by one on a
glass-surfaced bar code reader that records the price. The customer
then drops them onto a conveyor belt, and each item passes through
a second gizmo a scanner that showers it with lasers. The laser
is designed to prevent a customer from scanning an item, then
replacing it with something more expensive.
If the two scans don't match, the conveyor belt reverses
direction and returns the item to the customer.
For veggies and fruit, the shopper places the items on the
scanner, which doubles as a scale, looks them up in a booklet next
to the price display screen and keys in the identification numbers.
The computer does the rest.
Winn-Dixie estimates that 30 percent of a store's customers will
use the lanes, but it won't give out a customer total. Generally,
customers with 10 items or less will try it, executives said.
The system, made by Productivity Solutions of Jacksonville, has
at least one other safeguard against theft. The bar code scanner
turns off after each item is recorded and doesn't switch on again
until the item rolls through the laser scanner. Also, there still
are cashiers and baggers who will watch for shoplifters, as they do
now.
The Automotive Service Association, or ASA, is a national
organization with members throughout the country and is a good
place to start. The organization has a code of ethics members are
expected to follow, and it offers benefits such as technical
training and other amenities to attract top-notch mechanics. It
performs a pre-employment check of prospective employees, which
helps weed out substandard mechanics, and encourages certification
of its members.
-- To furnish an itemized invoice for fairly priced parts and
services that clearly identifies any used or remanufactured parts.
Replaced parts may be inspected upon request.
You deserve to know what you've paid for in clear, concise
terms. There are times when the cost of a new part is prohibitive,
especially with larger components such as starters and alternators,
so a good-quality remanufactured unit may be a better deal.
-- To recommend corrective and maintenance services, explaining
to the customer which of these are required to correct existing
problems and which are for preventive maintenance.
Unscrupulous and poorly trained mechanics will recommend repairs
that are unfounded and, in all honesty, there are times when even a
well-trained mechanic will make a mistake.
Many customers get peeved when they take their cars in for the
repair of one thing only to be presented with a list of unrelated
items that need attention. However, if the fan belt breaks or the
brakes start grinding a week later, we blame the same shop for that
problem.
When I am servicing or repairing a car, I look around for other
potential trouble spots. This means looking at more than the car
came in for. I know the customer isn't going to crawl under the car
on a regular basis (if at all) and check things out. That's my job.
I would much rather give customers a list of potentially
troublesome situations than have them encounter a problem I saw but
failed tell them about.
ATLANTA -- For years, the GMC truck brand has seemed to exist in
the shadow of its big brother, Chevrolet. Chevy trucks have played
well, while the GMC brand has just sort of hung around other GM
brand dealerships with seemingly little more purpose than to offer
the availability of a truck should such a customer stumble into an
Olds, Pontiac, Buick or Cadillac dealer.
The 1999 GMC Sierra will, for the first time in many years, have
many brand-specific features: hoods, fenders, bumpers, fascia and
headlamp assemblies. No longer will it be merely a rebadged Chevy.
The '99 Sierra also offers some nifty new features, starting with a
redesigned frame; improved fuel economy, horsepower and torque
ratings; and comfortable seating in an enlarged passenger area in
the extended-cab models.
Sierra's one possible shortcoming is the lack of the fourth door
on the extended-cab edition. Both Ford and Dodge extended cabs
offer this feature.
The launch of these vehicles is important to GMC and General
Motors, especially since the average sales transaction on these
vehicles carries a reported $7,000 profit to GM.
But a labor dispute at the Flint, Mich., stamping plant -- where
those unique hood and fenders were to be stamped -- is a problem.
Over the Memorial Day weekend, management quietly moved the
stamping equipment to another location, perhaps anticipating the
strike. It was like drawing a line in the sand; the Flint workers
walked.
Their strike is about more than just the stamping equipment. It
is a culmination of watching the exodus of automotive jobs from not
only Flint and the rest of Michigan but the entire United States.
If the dispute isn't resolved quickly, it also has the potential
of disrupting one of the biggest vehicle launches in recent GM
history.
ATLANTA -- Comes now the 1998 Daewoo Leganza front-drive sedan,
wafting over from South Korea like some test balloon intended to
tell its launchers which way car sales are blowing and to locate
hot spots.
The Leganza, a comfortable enough four-door with exterior lines
and trim vaguely reminiscent of Chrysler/General Motors cars, is
one of three models due here from Daewoo.
The multi-industrial firm, which reports its sales last year
totaled $68 billion, also plans to bring in a 1.6-liter-engined
Lanos coupe and sedan and a 2.0-liter-engined Nubira coupe and
sedan.
Prices aren't firm. Daewoo says the Leganza will range from
$15,000 to $20,000, while the smaller Nubira will be in the
$12,000-$14,000 range and the subcompact Lanos in the
$9,000-$12,000 range. It's difficult to imagine the fully equipped
test Leganza -- silver with a two-tone brown interior set off by
faux wood trim -- rolling out of a showroom for less than $22,000.
Daewoo's Los Angeles-based publicity firm says July will find
the cars in 14 major markets, although a site for the company-owned
showroom in Atlanta has not been announced. (Calls to Daewoo's
offices in Compton, Calif., were not returned.)
The test vehicle made it obvious that pricing will be a vital
factor in the Leganza's acceptance or dismissal in the highly
competitive family sedan market. Positives include the power/luxury
features, a willingness to run stably with I-285 traffic and
reasonable fuel mileage (about 25 mpg combined). Negatives include
some awkward controls, including those for the high-end stereo, and
Daewoo's lack of a track record (It has helped build some General
Motors vehicles, including the Pontiac LeMans).
The tester's appointments were fine, with quality cloth,
visually acceptable plastic, the expected amenities and some
convenience pluses: drink holders, storage spaces, plenty of vents,
big outside mirrors and a split fold-down rear seat.
The 2.2-liter four-cylinder engine is rated at 131 horsepower,
and that seemed very realistic. The test Leganza's motor
occasionally required restarting if cold and sometimes seemed to
have a bad relationship with the four-speed automatic transmission,
resulting in some gear-hunting and unexpected kick-downs. It's not
a quiet power plant, but how many four-cylinders really are hushed?
The ride was generally good, although the independent suspension
could be heard working on rough surfaces. Both the rack-and-pinion
steering and the power anti-lock disc brakes seemed suitable for
the North American market, meaning neither required much effort.
Major features (some optional): air conditioning, power locks
and windows, cruise control, power tilt/slide sunroof, power
rack-and-pinion steering, 100-watt AM/FM stereo with six speakers
and CD/cassette players
WASHINGTON Overcoming months of resistance from Republican
leaders, the House began Thursday to debate the main bipartisan
proposal for new campaign finance laws.
Up to seven more weeks of debate on hundreds of amendments lie
ahead before a final vote in the House under a new schedule for a
final vote promised by Republican leaders.
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, made a statement on
the House floor that most members interpreted as a pledge there
would be a vote on the final, amended version of a campaign-finance
bill before the legislators start their summer vacation, now
scheduled to begin Aug. 7.
But Armey's promise persuaded Shays and other GOP supporters of
the bipartisan bill to drop their threat to vote against new rules
that allow a record number of amendments during the debate.
The modified rules adopted Thursday by a vote of 221-189 state
that let members offer an unlimited number of amendments that are
germane, or related to campaign finance bills, and a record-setting
258 non-germane amendments.
The Shays-Meehan bill would ban all contributions to parties for
any purposes from corporate or union treasuries, and would limit
the amount that any individual could contribute in one year. Under
the current system, parties can accept as much as they want from
any source to fund activities that the parties assert do not
provide direct assistance to federal candidates.
PARIS There are three good reasons for despising the thugs,
the mostly English thugs, who ran wild in Marseille the other day and who are lying in wait to do it again.
The first reason to despise them is that they despise us. They
are sociopaths, not stupid, and they mean to attack the helpless,
throw society into chaos. They just happen to choose soccer for
their cover.
The second reason to despise the thugs is that they are used as
an excuse to scorn soccer back in the United States. Apparently it
is easier for television news editors and newspaper headline
writers to document English criminals and racists than it is to
portray Nigerians running the fast break or Brazilians charming the
host country.
The third reason to despise the thugs is that they jeopardize
the carnival mood of this World Cup. The organizers in Toulouse
have had to cancel their summer-solstice music festival Sunday
night because they fear the jackals waiting in the weeds for the
next England game Monday.
What a shame, because the hosts have planned such nice parties.
The other day I went to Copacabana Beach in Nantes, the old city on
the Loire estuary, where hosts trucked in tons of sand so young
people could play beach soccer, so elegant women from Cameroon
could sell T-shirts and artwork, so Moroccan entrepreneurs could
sell Middle Eastern sweets.
Out in the main square, there was a motorcade of Moroccan fans
(men and women together), horns honking, flags waving, marching and
cheering, joined by Brazilians and Japanese and French and Scots
and Americans and Cameroonians, all linking arms.
Meanwhile, in Marseille, they were cleaning up the mess from
their English visitors, who had gone into that hard southern port
city, looking to stir up trouble among the large Middle Eastern
community.
Don't get this wrong. These marauders are not homeless or
jobless or marginal people. A number of studies have shown that
these are men from their teens into their 40s who work all week
while plotting military-style maneuvers, trapping and wounding
blacks or Pakistanis or Indians or Jews or women or some toff whose
face annoys them.
I could make my guesses about the cause the monarchy, the
none-too-subtle divisions of accent and school and neighborhood and
ancestry.
Any American knows we've got more than our share of malevolence
back home, but nobody has ever linked one sport with planned
violence. It is not the fault of the sport itself, obviously, but
the question is, can these people be identified and stopped?
While Marseille was trembling, the English sent over a security
official who spoke excellent French and lectured on the Rights of
Man, on Liberte, Fraternite, Egalite. I almost expected him to
break out singing the Marseillaise.
In a way, he was right. In the new European Community, people
can cross the old borders with fewer restrictions than the past,
the price for cheaper wine and cheese. After several decades of
death and violence around soccer games, English officials have
tried to limit the most notorious thugs from traveling, but it's
not working, or else the malaise is deeper than they imagined.
Soccer officials cannot very well ban the English team from
major tournaments, although it was a stroke of luck having them
fail to qualify for the 1994 World Cup in the United States.
There are other candidates for 2006 Germany, South Africa,
Australia. I say it's too soon to give the World Cup back to
Europe, and South Africa could be unstable after the Mandela era.
Australia is a good alternative, and the yobs could not just hop a
ferry or a train and be at the World Cup in a few hours.
Do I really think a yellow card would stop the marauders? No,
not really. But a red card would make the 2006 World Cup safer from
these thugs, to allow the Brazilians and the Moroccans and all the
other joyous fans to link arms and dance in the streets, the way
they do on Copacabana Beach in Nantes.
Ms. Holmes, the Soviet-trained artistic director of the Boston
Ballet, had danced the pas de deux and was drawn to the three-act
work after seeing a videotape of Konstantin Sergeyev's 1992
production for the Bolshoi Ballet. The Sergeyev staging was itself
inspired by versions by Marius Petipa, whose ballets helped define
ballet classicism in Russia, in the late 19th century.
Ms. Holmes acquired the sets and costumes from another Soviet
production, by Yuri Grigorovich, which she found stored in a
warehouse in Moscow.
To help with the production, she brought Vadim Disnitsky,
Sergeyev's assistant, to Boston, along with Natalya Dudinskaya, Ms.
Holmes' longtime mentor, a noted Soviet ballerina and the wife of
Sergeyev. Other Soviet dancers already in Boston Tatiana Legat,
Tatiana Terekhova and Sergei Berejnoi helped with the staging.
Irina Kolpakova, a former Kirov Ballet star currently coaching
Ballet Theater dancers, helped with the Soviet style, which
emphasizes the line of the upper body more than American ballet
training does.
But Ms. Holmes' first step in the restaging was to work with
company music directors on the score, which is by five composers.
Then came considerable editing and reassigning of dances and
dramatic bits to make the plot more plausible.
Including the anecdote in a catalog statement about his art,
Slick sees the fast, funny cheeseburger zinger as the kind of
equalizer used by Indians to arm themselves against the put-downs
of white America.
In fact, the strongest theme of the show is the clash of
American Indian values with those of the contemporary world specifically the white world and the way Indians deal with being,
so to speak, low men on the totem pole in a country they still see
as a bastion of colonialism.
Every topic that touches on Indian-white contact is ripe for
gibes, from the Bureau of Indian Affairs to television to casinos
even.
In three paintings by Harry Fonseca (Maidu) done from 1987 to
1993, Coyote turns up as a vaudeville Uncle Sam, a hipster in a
black leather jacket and a saint surrounded by clouds and flowers.
NEW YORK The mournful tableaux of white plaster figures fitted
into diners, subway cars or telephone booths produced by George
Segal in the 1960s earned him a permanent niche in the history of
Pop Art. But he was not content to confine his vision to that
genre, and in later years he tackled other worlds and bigger
themes.
The retrospective of Segal's work now on view at the Jewish
Museum is determined to prove that he was more than just a Pop
artist; it presents him as a humanist able to address difficult
historical topics or deep religious themes. He also appears as a
playful traditionalist doing variations on Cezanne or Cubism and,
in a series of late portrait drawings, as a follower of Rembrandt.
Of the 42 works on view, only three or four are in the style for
which Segal is best known. But the problem is that those remain his
most convincing works. The original show, organized by Marco
Livingstone for the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, had 71 works;
this was whittled down to fit the tighter confines of the Jewish
Museum.
Segal, who was born in 1924, was in his late 30s when, in 1961,
he discovered the possibilities of casting human bodies in plaster.
Before that, he had been a brushy, figurative painter mixing
influences from Matisse and Abstract Expressionism, and he had made
some roughly modeled plaster figures that he posed in front of his
paintings. At the same time, he was working in New Jersey as a
chicken farmer and later as a schoolteacher.
At one point, Segal realized he didn't have to make everything
with his own hands but could work as an assemblagist, arranging
things he had found into theatrical situations. Other artists,
including Robert Rauschenberg, Edward Kienholz and Segal's friend
Allan Kaprow, who staged his first Happening at Segal's farm, were
already moving in this direction. In Segal's case, it was a
breakthrough and was what made his figures so striking.
Constructed from thin plaster shells made by applying medical
plaster-impregnated bandages to real people, the figures are more
like found objects than expressive representations. And when
they're placed in settings built from real-world materials, the
effect is uncanny.
There's a resonant ambiguity about these figures. They're blank
but emotionally fraught, specific but anonymous, ordinary but
strange. And there's a melancholy romance in these scenes that
calls to mind the paintings of Edward Hopper.
Segal's sculptural portraits, like a full-figure cast of his
dealer Sidney Janis (1967), posed looking at a simulated Mondrian
on a wooden easel, are problematic in another way. The technique
doesn't allow nuanced responses to personality, and the sculptures
look like what they are: inert shells of real people.
As for Segal's play with still lifes and Cubism, or his late
portrait drawings, it's enough to say that he is most compelling
when he deals with the human figure in three dimensions.
The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for use
by clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Friday,
June 19. If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt on
the Star's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.
Camp is not the desired solution for producers of period pieces
like this, but Anagnost and his forces did not have much choice.
The plot is a tangle of regal figures, assumed names and mistaken
identities, and so overblown seem the sentiments to our ears today
that modernizing this piece for late-20th-century palates would
probably mean junking everything except Vivaldi's music. This might
not be a bad idea.
The self-mocking approach is applied with an appropriately light
touch. Lynn Redgrave's narration between numbers is the principle
device, but there were discreet bits of business throughout the
evening.
It was a lavish application of the opera-in-concert format. The
singers often added a crown or a kingly robe to standard evening
dress. Strewn around the stage were columns, garden statuary and
urns sprouting greenery. Flowers were everywhere. The seven singers
reclined in period armchairs when not at work.
An audience that literally filled Tully Hall seemed happy to sit
for three hours, and there were some good singers for it to hear.
As Lisea, Julia Anne Wolf's muted mezzo-soprano was a steadying
influence. Rockland Osgood (Tamese) was an attractive tenor. As
Barzane, Robert Crowe's countertenor bravely attacked Vivaldi's
high-flying music, suffering only one near meltdown. As Miranda,
Theresa Cincione's soprano worked well at times but was unsuited
for the part's upper-range adventures.
Ellen Rabiner, also a mezzo-soprano, took the title role with
great emphasis and sureness. Stephen Bryant was the strong, solid
Cisardo. I especially liked the evening's Nicandro, Julie Newell, a
soprano whose sustained musicality and sureness with florid
figuration sounded as good as any singing of the evening.
Anagnost conducts Vivaldi with a relaxed musicality. No flashy
tempos, not much emphasis on spit-and-polish exactitude but rather
an atmosphere of roominess and leisure. The small orchestra of
assorted modern strings and brass also used recorders and
harpsichord. The Metropolitan Singers and the Greek Choral Society
were a little frayed and blowsy but they got by.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatly
raised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, and
increased funding for health programs. By Richard Sanchez. 700
words.
TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of the
antitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in political
science than as one in public health. By David M. Shribman. 800
words.
WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodward
returns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed US
justice system for her fate. By Doreen Iudica Vigue. 1000 words. (a
and i coding)
WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the first
defendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in her
case. By John Ellement. 700 words. (a and i coding)
BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn't
want to be baseball's fulltime commissioner. But don't be surprised
when he accepts it. By Larry Whiteside.
If devotees of the television series come to the film with
enough baggage for a six-week safari, perhaps they can deepen the
experience of watching a middling, unfocused action-adventure with
brand-name appeal.
But there's a catch: this film isn't tailor-made for true
X-fanatics, because the material has been so broadened to
accommodate the uninitiated. Trust no one who dreams up an action
sequence in Antarctica for the big screen.
The movie teasingly offers the prospect of big developments in
the television X-plot, but all it really does is create a vague
omnibus format for future movie spinoffs.
Meanwhile, the movie may raise more questions than it meant to
when it offers glimpses of alien troublemakers. Reaching for
run-of-the-mill grisly horror, it winds up attributing
sophisticated global-domination plans to vicious, long-clawed
spacelings who are more prone to screams than schemes.
Without making much connection with the end-of-season television
cliffhanger, the film starts off in Ice Age Texas, where aliens
lurk in wait for Early Man. Thirty-seven thousand years later,
Texas has heated up, but the aliens' modus operandi hasn't much
changed.
A nicely diabolical early scene shows a little boy savaged by
the invasive virus nicknamed the black oil. Typically, as it works
to cover too many bases, the film mentions the virus again but
never follows through on one of its best special-effects tricks.
Then it's off to Dallas, where FBI agents Mulder (David
Duchovny) and Scully (Gillian Anderson) trade affectionate
wisecracks atop a Dallas office building. The X-file investigation
into alien activity is now officially closed (as if!), so they have
been newly assigned to antiterrorist vigilance.
They spot the bomb, but it goes off anyway, shearing off half of
a government building. That allusion to Oklahoma City could have
been the film's most shameless or daring aspect, but proves to be
neither.
The film avoids real political conspiracies in favor of a
pie-in-the-sky thesis that the building was destroyed to hide
evidence of alien activity, and that aliens have subverted the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
So a number of series fixtures (like the trio called the Lone
Gunmen) make minor appearances, while Martin Landau, Blythe Danner
and Armin Mueller-Stahl establish new characters. (Mueller-Stahl's
German mastermind, advocating the strangest of appeasement
policies, is the most intriguing of these.)
But the touch of X-iness that will matter most to both diehards
and neophytes is the film's promise of heightened conspiratorial
activity between Scully and Mulder. And here's where it does the
most mischievous teasing, since the story's big Antarctic spectacle
still seems warmer than the not-quite-love-affair.
The film contrives a fairly strangled declaration of fondness
from Mulder, a near-clinch and a wild idea of how to get a heroine
out of her clothes. This last episode, unfolding in a huge set that
resembles a giant carburetor, doesn't actually glimpse Scully in
the nude or goad Mulder into anything more daring than a Sir Walter
Raleigh imitation. But as on-the-job rescue efforts go, it does
qualify as a fetishist's delight.
Though both stars are sometimes eclipsed when the film strains
for action episodes, Duchovny sustains enough cool, deadpan
intellect and suppressed passion to give the story a center. Ms.
Anderson has the harsher, more restrictive role, but she plays it
with familiar hardboiled glamour.
Directed by Rob Bowman; written by Chris Carter, based on a
story by Carter and Frank Spotnitz; director of photography, Ward
Russell; edited by Stephen Mark; music by Mark Snow; production
designer, Christopher Nowak; produced by Carter and Daniel
Sackheim; executive producer, Lata Ryan; co-producer, Spotnitz;
released by 20th Century Fox. Running time: 115 minutes.
UNDATED: If Hollywood's current fascination with menacing
meteorites has you hunkered down waiting for the big one to hit, we
have news for you: We're already being bombarded. Every day. By
billions of meteorite fragments tiny enough to be invisible to the
naked eye but numerous enough to add something like 910 metric tons
each year to the weight of the Earth.
Nearly all of the meteoritic matter that hits Earth is
microscopic in size. But it's only a matter of time, of course,
before something big say, the size of your average dining-room
table survives its fiery journey through Earth's atmosphere and
crashes into our planet.
One of the foremost examples in the United States is the
so-called Meteor Crater in Arizona, which measures about 4,150 feet
across and 570 feet deep. There also are some fine specimens in
northern Ontario, according to Dort.
Craters are difficult to identify on Earth, as compared to the
moon, Dort said, because of foliage or other features covering the
surface. In addition, he said, many craters have been partly or
completed eroded away or filled in through human activities and
normal geological processes.
Meteorites also generate plenty of interest and have become
collectors' items. One type contains a combination of many
different elements. The other type is made largely of iron, with a
pinch of nickel thrown in. Most meteorites, but not all, contain
some iridium.
The largest meteorite ever found in the United States is the
Willamette Meteorite, which is 118 inches long, weighs 14 metric
tons and is deeply pitted and scarred on one side. It was found in
Oregon's Willamette Valley in 1902.
They generally are errant bits of asteroids or comets and are
pulled out of their orbit by the gravitational force of a nearby
planet, toward which they eventually hurtle.
When it meets Earth's dense atmosphere, a meteorite, traveling
at perhaps 20 or 30 miles per second, encounters a lot of friction,
which causes it to heat up, melt and break into pieces, Dort said.
Sometimes a meteorite will explode upon hitting Earth's
atmosphere. The resulting shards, as well as the force of such an
explosion close to Earth's surface, can create a large hole in the
Earth's crust.
But really, what are the odds of such a catastrophe in the
lifetime of anyone now living?
Dort thinks that we must scan the skies for objects headed our
way and that we should work on developing a system for intercepting
anything deemed to be on a collision course.
My sister looked at me. I looked at my sister. I looked at
myself.
I walked over and pulled out a top drawer. The old blond dresser
had been in the dining room for as long as I can remember and
I'll be 38 this fall. So ... maybe 30 years? 32?
I clicked one on and scribbled on a scratch pad. No ink. Nothing
but that horrible sound of dry tip against dry paper. And a maze of
colorless ruts. I clicked on another. Nothing. And another. And
another.
I picked out a couple of pocketknives and three compasses. Then
I turned the whole drawer upside-down in the trash bag.
The stuff in this one wasn't so worthless. A black-and-white
graduation picture of our cousin Jeanne from 1965. My third-grade
class picture. A VFW medallion. A miniature American flag. Lots
more pictures. Old pictures.
She carefully sorts what I pull out. One box for the personal
things. Another for stuff that can go to Goodwill or some other
place like that.
The third drawer goes faster. We're getting down a system here.
I pull, she sorts. She always has been the patient one, the
organized one.
At first I feel funny. Uncomfortable. Pretty soon, though, I get
caught up in the pulling. She doesn't say how she feels and I
don't ask because I'm afraid to. I don't want to know. Not yet at
least. Anyway, she's probably caught up in sorting like I am in
pulling.
She's not mean about it, but she sets me straight. Like when we
were kids. The older one telling the younger one exactly how it is.
She's right, of course. We have only just started. We have the
whole rest of the house.
For some odd, silly little reason, I feel so much better after
she says that. But my feeling better doesn't have anything to do
with the cleaning.
I head for the old blond dresser's mate across the room. I pull
out a top drawer and she starts sorting.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatly
raised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, and
increased funding for health programs. By Richard Sanchez. 700
words.
TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of the
antitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in political
science than as one in public health. By David M. Shribman. 800
words.
WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodward
returns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed US
justice system for her fate. By Doreen Iudica Vigue. 1000 words. (a
and i coding)
WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the first
defendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in her
case. By John Ellement. 700 words. (a and i coding)
BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn't
want to be baseball's fulltime commissioner. But don't be surprised
when he accepts it. By Larry Whiteside.
Lyondell Petrochemical Co. agreed Thursday to buy ARCO Chemical
Co. from the Atlantic Richfield Company for $5.6 billion in cash, a
deal that would triple Lyondell's size and make it a major provider
of chemicals used in everyday products such as plastics, detergents
and paints.
The agreement effectively reunites ARCO Chemical with Lyondell,
itself a former Atlantic Richfield subsidiary. Lyondell will pay
$57.75 a share for the outstanding shares of ARCO Chemical, which
is 82.2 percent owned by Atlantic Richfield.
The sale was not a surprise since Atlantic Richfield, a major
oil company based in Los Angeles, has been reducing its chemical
business as part of a broader strategy to focus on oil exploration
and production.
Atlantic Richfield chairman and chief executive Mike Bowlin said
Thursday that it was more attractive to sell the whole stake in
that business. He said the money would be used to reduce debt
incurred from the acquisition of Union Texas Petroleum Holdings, an
independent oil company, which Atlantic Richfield agreed to buy
last month for $2.47 billion.
Atlantic Richfield has also begun an aggressive exploration
drive overseas to find new reserves of oil, since production at its
huge oil fields in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, has been falling.
The ARCO Chemical deal is the latest in a series of asset sales
by Atlantic Richfield. Last September the oil company sold the
remainder of its stake in Lyondell, and reached a deal to sell its
coal business to a New York investment firm last February.
Shares of ARCO Chemical surged on word of an impending deal,
first reported Thursday by The Wall Street Journal. ARCO Chemical
finished at $57.0625 a share, up $6.50, or 12.9 percent. Lyondell
rose $1.25, to $29, while Atlantic Richfield fell $1.625, to
$78.8125.
Lyondell, based in Houston, had sales of $2.3 billion last year.
It makes basic chemicals such as ethylene and propylene, which are
used in a wide variety of consumer products.
ARCO Chemical, based in Newton Square, Pa., had sales of $4
billion last year. It is a major producer of propylene oxide, used
to make a range of products such as coolants, paints and cosmetics.
Frank Mitsch, an analyst of the chemical industry for Deutsche
Bank Securities, said the acquisition reflected shrewd timing by
Smith, since prices for chemical assets have been in a cyclical
decline and were likely to rise.
Lyondell has been seeking to cut costs and improve earnings by
entering into joint ventures with other chemical makers. In one
such venture last March, Lyondell joined Millennium Chemicals Inc.
to buy the petrochemical business from Occidental Petroleum Corp.
for $425 million.
The news Wednesday comes one day after Payless announced its
first positive quarter in a year and a half. It reported
second-quarter net income of $732,000, compared with a loss of
$13.2 million in the same period last year.
Barron takes over the positions once held by David Stanley,
former chief executive officer, and Susan Stanton, former
president. Stanley and Stanton left Payless in January shortly
after a new board was formed.
Donald E. Roller, who has been acting chief executive officer
and president, will stay on as a board member.
Zellers lured Barron away from Wal-Mart, where he was senior
vice president and chief operating officer of Wal-Mart
International and where he played a major role in Wal-Mart's
aggressive expansion into Canada.
Before Wal-Mart entered Canada in 1994, Zellers accounted for 70
percent of Hudson's Bay profits. By this spring, it had dropped to
36 percent.
Chisholm said a lot of turnaround programs that Barron initiated
never were implemented, partly because of new management at
Hudson's Bay, including the appointment of Bill Fields, another
former top Wal-Mart executive, as president and chief executive
officer.
In any case, Barron left Zellers earlier this year because he
and his family wanted to return to the United States, Payless
spokeswoman Linda Ward said.
Before working in Wal-Mart's international division, Barron was
a vice president of operations for Wal-Mart's U.S. stores. Barron
joined Wal-Mart after working 20 years at Hills Department Stores
Inc. in Massachusetts, where he rose to executive vice president of
store operations.
This room where I work has a door with glass panes, and she
looked through the glass at the knob I was holding.
That's certainly one way to look at it and that other three-time
U.S. Open groomsman, Tom Lehman, who has been no worse than tied
for the lead after the first three rounds of the last three Opens,
yet failed to even equal par on the final Sundays.
Theirs are the voices of near-winning-experience at this 98th
U.S. Open, which opened Thursday on the Olympic Club's Lake Course.
And, in a game where the mind can be the enemy, both golfers have
spun sad moments into positive memories.
They didn't lose the Open, they'd tell you: They nearly won it,
and came away with nothing less than the power to win it this time.
Montgomerie, 34, has been the favorite of the media to win here,
perhaps because he sounded eerily like Mark O'Meara did on the eve
of his first majors victory, the 1998 Masters.
But he was crying behind the 18th green last year after Ernie
Els made par to beat him by a stroke. Just a hole earlier,
Montgomerie stood over a 5-foot birdie putt that would have tied
him for the lead. He stood and stood, waiting for the rowdy
Americans at Congressional Country Club in Maryland to hush. And
then he missed the putt.
Montgomerie's recent successes include finishing in the top 10
in three of his five PGA Tour events this year and all five of his
European Tour events, which helps explain his confidence in his
game and his chances here.
Lehman, 38, has been having a different kind of year. He's
finished in the top 10 in only three of his 14 events and won none,
but was buoyed (also soaked) by a third-place finish at wet
Westchester last weekend.
Lehman, like Montgomerie, trailed Els by a shot at the 17th tee
last year. But he followed a perfect drive by splashing a 7-iron
into a water hazard, and wound up finishing third.
BEIJING The Chinese government has formally spelled out its
radical new housing policy, under which the hallowed right of
workers to virtually cost-free apartments will be ended this year.
Under the new guidelines, detailed this week in the state-run news
media, most of China's urban residents will be required either to
buy their homes or pay much higher rents.
The wholesale change in housing is widely seen as potentially
one of the most far-reaching of China's economic reforms, one that
can spur entire new service industries, like home repair and
decoration and mortgage banking, as well as create a growing class
of independent homeowners.
The subsidy of housing and other social welfare benefits has
been a crushing burden on companies here, Huang said, and must be
ended if Chinese enterprises are to compete globally.
A freer housing market will also promote the development of
private enterprise and labor mobility, he said.
The new housing policy will be highlighted during President
Clinton's visit to China, which starts next week, with a visit to
homeowners.
In some cities, the shift toward private home-ownership had
already begun in the last few years. Some work units began selling
apartments to workers, and stopped allocating housing to new
employees. Another factor has been the gradual spread of private
companies and foreign joint ventures, which provide far fewer
social benefits like housing to their workers.
Then, last March, in his first statement as prime minister, Zhu
Rongji declared that the longstanding system of subsidized housing
would quickly be ended altogether.
City governments and work units began hashing out rules for the
transition, including purchase prices and restraints on resale and
rental.
This week, at a closed three-day conference of public officials,
national guidelines for the change were spelled out, but provinces
and local governments were given leeway in the timing and specific
rules, according to reports Thursday in the state-run press.
Among other things, the government is pushing banks to offer
home mortgages, a novel concept here. Rents, for those who do not
buy, will multiply by several times, but subsidies will still be
given to those with the lowest incomes.
In general, purchase prices are being set at what might appear
to be bargain levels $10,000 may be typical for a two-bedroom
apartment in Beijing with deductions according to length of
service in state agencies or companies, and the age of the
dwelling.
But with many urban families earning only a few thousand dollars
a year, if that, the prices are still a strain and since March,
housing questions have preoccupied many.
Most people seem enthusiastic about the idea of home ownership,
and many have been scrambling to pull together down payments of
perhaps 30 percent.
But the relative financial merits of the offered choices have
often seemed confusing, and people are rightly worried about future
maintenance costs in poorly constructed buildings. In Beijing, an
initial deadline of July 1 for commitments to purchase at
subsidized prices had to be postponed until the end of the year.
Rao Jianhong, 32, and his wife, Li Juan, 31, both assistant
professors at Beijing Business College and parents of a 4-year-old
girl, said they were delighted to have the chance to buy their
two-bedroom apartment for just over $10,000. With their extra
income from teaching night classes, Rao said, they would just be
able to make their mortgage payments of $120 a month.
Once they own or have rental rights to their apartments,
independently of their workplace, people will be more free to seek
different jobs, work in private industry or move, for example.
Debate continues in some work units over who should be able to
buy or rent newer apartments, and whether resales should eventually
be opened to any customers. Work-unit housing is often clustered
around the company or even inside the work unit's walled compound.
He and his wife now pay rent of $8.50 a month. They live on
combined pensions of $182 a month, and worry about how high their
rent may go.
Though the new policy is a giant step toward a free market,
rules commonly dictate across-the-board sale prices with little
regard for any market, and impose restrictions, such as five-year
moratoriums, on the resale or legal subletting of units.
The restrictions will undercut the broader benefits of the new
policy, said Huang of the World Bank. But he predicted that
impatient purchasers will prove a strong force.
I spent a day last week at a management training seminar in
which a communication expert talked about all the reasons why men
are from Mars and women are from Venus. Or is it the other way
around?
No, it wasn't the guy who wrote that book which, by the way, I
heaved across my bedroom floor in frustration at the apparently
intractable gender differences.
Then we go to work. And surprise, surprise the two genders
might as well be speaking separate languages, we hear each other so
differently.
Take meetings. All the former little boys who grew up
practicing team sports so they had all their strategies in place
before the game wouldn't dream of going into meetings without
their teammates aligned and the agenda set.
The former little girls who grew up playing house and putting
clothes on dolls and taking them off again just for the pleasure of
the process think a meeting is for talking. There's no strategy
for dolls, right?
The former little boys go to the meeting because the boss called
it, not because they want to discuss things. Their teams are
primed. The former little girls, on the other hand, actually think
they're going to talk about something.
The top-ranking former little boy makes a declarative statement.
The former little girls nod their heads, not necessarily because
they agree but just to show him they're listening politely.
Then one of the former little girls asks a question. The former
little boys shift in their seats. The head guy wishes the impudent
wench would be a good team player and not question the coach. And
why had she nodded her head, anyway, if she didn't agree?
Pffft. Write her off, some of the former little boys think to
themselves. She's so tentative. Unsure. Wimpy.
But most of the former little boys figure the boss is going to
win, so they cast their vote with the winner. It's a slam dunk. Two
of the little girls also vote with the boss. End of meeting.
The former little boys no matter who voted for what head
across the street for a beer. It's a strategic-alliance Kodak
moment.
One of the former little girls isn't speaking to another because
she feels betrayed by a friend. Another sheds conflict-inspired
tears in the restroom. Two continue talking at their desks.
(Thanks to Pat Heim, author//researcher//seminar presenter, for
column fuel on how team sports and playing dolls prepare people for
the workplace.)
This glumly amusing effort from writer//director Pal Sletaune
fairly oozes Scandinavian angst, from the pasty, beard-stubbled
visages of its characters to the slumlike buildings in which it
unfolds and the unrelenting gray atmosphere, which baths every
scene in a sort of dull, color-draining fluorescent light.
It's so dank and grim and Orwellian, in fact, that the film's
very joylessness becomes an intentional joke.
Roy (Robert Skjaerstad) is a furtive, sullen, thoroughly
miserable fellow. He's a postman, but you can forget the old
rain-snow-dark-of-night bit. When his bag gets too heavy, he simply
dumps the excess mail in a railway tunnel. Nor is he beyond
relieving his boredom by steaming open his customers' letters and
looking into their lives.
When a young woman, Line (Andrine Saether), forgetfully leaves
her apartment keys dangling in her mailbox lock, Roy can't help
himself. He snatches them, sneaks upstairs and invades her home,
snooping through her cupboards, stealing a photo of her from a
scrapbook and, most intriguingly, stumbling across a plastic trash
sack filled with cash.
He is, in fact, taking a nap when Line returns. Hiding beneath
her bed, he's got a ringside seat for her attempted suicide. After
a moment's indecision, Roy pulls the unconscious woman from her
bath, phones rescuers, then flees before they arrive.
But having saved Line's life, Roy feels weirdly obligated to her and romantically stirred. Before long he is defending the young
woman from her venal boyfriend, George (Per Egil Aske). The money
in the bag is a result of George's criminal activities, and when it
turns up missing, Roy has to play the hero.
No wonder Roy decides to risk his neck to save Line. What with
the deadly dull world around him, flirting with death may be the
only way he'll ever feel alive.
Dedee, played with sneering voluptuousness by Christina Ricci,
doesn't like movie cliches. But then Dedee doesn't like much of
anything, including those of us in the audience, whom she addresses
with undisguised contempt.
This prime slice of 16-year-old trailer-court trash is the most
outrageous character in writer//director Don Roos' comedy of bad
manners, but she manages to bring out edgy behavior in just about
everyone she encounters.
As the film begins she's run away from her Louisiana home (after
desecrating the grave of her molesting stepfather) and high-tailed
it to Indiana to pay an unannounced visit to her older half-brother
Bill (Martin Donovan), whom she has seen only once before.
Immediately zeroing in on the weakest person in sight, she gets
to work on the slow-witted Matt, bullying him into exploring his
latent heterosexuality.
Before long Dedee has fled with Matt to California after
cleaning out Bill's bank account. The jilted Bill and Lucia give
chase, only to discover the very swollen Dedee cheating on Matt
with her old boyfriend from Louisiana, a violence-prone Christian
fundamentalist (William Scott Lee).
Although it's got some flat patches and erratic pacing, Roos'
directing debut is noteworthy not just for flirting with
outrageousness, but for embracing it.
Moreover, the movie exudes a pull-no-punches gay sensibility
even as it refuses to let characters off the hook just because
they're gay.
The weird thing is that despite the mantle of cynicism in which
he drapes his effort, Roos is below the surface quite charitable to
his characters even the hair-raising Dedee.
Here's a straightforward synopsis: Angst-riddled police
detective Nishi (Takeshi) is besieged in both his professional and
personal lives. His wife (Kayoko Kishimoto) is dying of leukemia,
his partner Horibe (Ren Osugi) is paralyzed after being shot by a
suspect. Nishi also is being badgered by loan sharks from whom he
has borrowed money to pay for his wife's hospitalization.
In the course of the film the normally unsentimental Nishi will
devote himself to his wife, inspire the embittered Horibe to take
up painting, ruthlessly track down the punk responsible for his
partner's plight, and bloodily eradicate the gangsters who keep
popping up to demand their money.
At the center is Nishi, played by Takeshi as something of a
mystery man. At times he seems as easily distracted as a bored
schoolboy; at other times you'd swear he's autistic, so incapable
is he of relating fully with another person. He hardly says a word,
preferring to grunt. He's got a bothersome facial tic that suggests
there's plenty boiling under his blank surface.
Whatever is percolating deep inside, it's nasty. With little or
no provocation Nishi explodes in horrifying violence. And yet, when
he and his ailing wife go on a long-delayed vacation undoubtedly
their last Nishi amuses her by throwing himself into silly
touristy behavior. His efforts at comedy are clumsy but
endearing. Clearly, there's love in there as well.
SLIAMMON INDIAN RESERVE, British Columbia One morning
recently, Evan Adams, a 31-year-old American Indian actor, was
telling stories in the small living room of his parents' home on
this beautiful, heavily wooded stretch of the Canadian coast.
Surrounded by his mother, three sisters and a brother, he
explained in his singsong voice how he had terrified some of the
participants in a first-aid course he had taken by reacting with
passionate alarm toward a doll that was supposedly choking and its
inflatable mother.
This gentle gibe brought gales of laughter from Adams' family,
and it was just one episode in a day of wordplay among a group of
people clearly comfortable communicating through sometimes bawdy
humor and irony. That, of course, would be unremarkable in such a
close-knit family except for the fact that Indians have generally
been depicted in popular culture, and especially in movies, as
earnest and stoic, sometimes pathetic and at times bloodthirsty,
but rarely wry.
This movie, which was directed by Chris Eyre, 28, is the work
not just of a group of creative people with full hearts but of
aggressive achievers determined to stake their claim to high ground
on the American cultural map.
He said in an interview that one of his primary goals was to
take away from so-called white experts the responsibility for
describing contemporary Indian culture. His aim, he said, is not to
avoid criticism of Indian society but to make sure that it is
Indians doing the criticizing and interpreting.
But beyond all that, Adams whose grandparents and several
aunts died of tuberculosis will begin medical school at the
University of Calgary this fall, to fulfill a goal of bringing
something back to his reservation, a hamlet of 650 people about 100
miles north of Vancouver amid mountains, towering cedars and rich
blue waters.
But the story is consistently enlivened by a self-deprecating
sense of humor, one of the most enduring Indian cultural
characteristics, particularly on the reservations, according to the
makers of the film.
But the film has a far different sensibility. The characters are
angry, but they're also silly, loving, careless, vulnerable, witty
and persistent. They play basketball. They laugh at their squalor.
At one point the only way they can go forward is by driving a
car backward. They mock Indian stereotypes, and they embrace them.
In fact, they are much like the group of people who made the film.
Eyre, a graduate of the film school at New York University, is a
Cheyenne-Arapaho who was adopted as a baby and brought up by a
white family in Oregon. He has spent the last few years tracking
down his biological parents and embracing his Indian heritage.
Beach, 25, an Ojibway from north of Winnipeg, bluntly described
how much of his own personal history was reflected in that of his
character, Victor, who is haunted by the absence of a parent. He
said the defining element of his early life was the death of his
mother, who was killed by a drunken driver when he was 8; she was
eight months pregnant at the time. His father drowned two months
later.
And then there is Adams, who has been almost frenetic in his
efforts both to investigate his culture through writing and acting
and to serve his people as a doctor. His parallel career paths
reflect a tension that runs through the lives of many Indians, he
said: whether to concentrate on articulating a distinct cultural
vision to the world outside the reservations or to focus on their
own people.
Adams is still undecided on which path will win out in his case,
but he seems to be leaning in one direction.
Adams' father, Les, the captain of a tugboat, said he had long
contemplated these issues. As he sat bobbing on his boat, he
explained that he knew many years ago that Evan was capable of
extraordinary accomplishments. And he said that he had sternly
instructed his son to focus his ambition on the world beyond the
reservation.
But, he admitted, Evan made it clear early on that he had his
own ideas about heritage and creativity. As a teen-ager, for
example, Evan learned and performed traditional dances that had
been little seen for years. Les Adams recalled bringing a friend,
the chief of a nearby tribe, to one of Evan's performances and
being struck to see his friend cry at one point.
Evan did go away to a private high school when he was 14 and
then to McGill University in Montreal. His father said he was
crushed when Evan announced that he was leaving McGill after a
year, to pursue acting.
Evan said that part of his struggle over the years had come from
his mixed feelings about living in a dominantly white society.
He described his swings from one world to the other while
showing a reporter an extraordinary collection of totem poles,
masks and other ceremonial objects preserved in the glass and
concrete Museum of Anthropology on the University of British
Columbia campus. He insisted that he was trying to find a way of
revering the past while shaping a new kind of future that was true
to both the Indian spirit and the modern spirit.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatly
raised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, and
increased funding for health programs. By Richard Sanchez. 700
words.
TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of the
antitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in political
science than as one in public health. By David M. Shribman. 800
words.
WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodward
returns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed US
justice system for her fate. By Doreen Iudica Vigue. 1000 words. (a
and i coding)
WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the first
defendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in her
case. By John Ellement. 700 words. (a and i coding)
BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn't
want to be baseball's fulltime commissioner. But don't be surprised
when he accepts it. By Larry Whiteside.
BEIJING Every Friday afternoon, dozens of late-model cars pull
up to the iron gate of the 3-year-old 21st-Century Experimental
School, one of this city's new private schools.
In a city where sturdy black bicycles are still the favored mode
of transportation and horse-drawn carts ply the streets, men in
suits and women wearing diamonds alight from Fords, Jeeps and BMWs,
rushing excitedly into the building to pick up their children some as young as 5 who board at the school from Monday to Friday
at a cost of $2,000 a year.
Like a phoenix rising from the ashes of communism, the last few
years have seen the a stunning growth of a flourishing Chinese
middle class. Ten years ago, this group did not exist, but now its
core of independent businessmen has been joined by a growing number
of private-sector lawyers, artists and employees of joint-venture
companies.
It is first defined by what its members have: computers,
microwaves, interior decorators and, increasingly, cars and homes.
On Saturday nights they go to concerts and in winter they vacation
in Thailand. But the rapid accumulation of material things has left
its psychological mark as well, infusing this group with a kind of
independence, and carefree optimism, that has not existed in China
for decades.
There is no one statistic that defines this group, which broadly
includes both company presidents (who seem to have it all) and
graduating college students who've just bought their first computer
(and want it all, someday). They are people who work hard for what
they achieve, for the most part without the family ties to the
Communist Party leadership that have long defined China's most
privileged class.
The group portrait is best created like a pointillist painting
from scores of small facts: 10 years ago, 95 percent of passengers
on airline flights in China were foreigners, but today, 95 percent
are Chinese. In 1990 there were no cellular phones in China, now
there are almost 17 million.
The middle class is admired by college students who hope to join
its ranks and, as of last year, has even been embraced by the
Communist Party for its contributions to China's modernization. The
Chinese government has even arranged for President Clinton to meet
private businessmen during his state visit, which begins next week.
Last year, Fang was sent to represent China at an international
business conference and was tapped to be a delegate to the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body of
distinguished non-Communist Party members.
Fang and his wife, who teaches at Beijing University, each have
their own cars. For next year's vacation, they are deliberating
between Europe and Australia. They have donated money to establish
university scholarships and children's libraries in Beijing, among
other causes. And, although they now live in a one-bedroom
apartment provided by Beijing University, they are contemplating
ownership once they have a child.
Of course, his has been a complicated transformation, given the
country's egalitarian tradition under communism, because the wave
of prosperity that has created a middle class has not carried all
Chinese equally. For every 30-year-old entrepreneur who has moved
up in social status, there are many more workers laid off from
ailing state-owned factories who have fallen.
The income gap between China's rich and poor is widening fast.
In Beijing last year, the average annual salary for bosses of
private companies was about $8,000 and for workers only $1,000,
said Dai Jianzheng, a sociologist at the Beijing Academy of Social
Science. The difference is even greater in the countryside.
She said that when her husband, a university professor, took the
$15,000, in cash, that she was paid for a screenplay to a local
bank recently, the other customers cursed him.
Although Chinese entrepreneurs began accumulating money in the
late 1980s, it was not until the mid-'90s that the accoutrements of
middle-class life cell phones, microwaves and a wide range of
cars were readily available for purchase in China. Then the
middle class really took off.
Some of the earliest entrants to the middle class, generally
young high-tech entrepreneurs who quit state enterprises to start
private companies nearly a decade ago, are now wealthy by any
country's standards.
The Dyne Group, with revenues of $240 million last year, now
sells computer systems and pharmaceuticals, and is branching out
into furniture.
Ms. Yan and Zhang live a life unthinkable a decade ago, with two
Mercedes, one Lincoln, one Ford and a villa in Beijing, a country
house and a third in Freemont, Calif., where their company has its
American office. Although Zhang would not disclose his own income,
he said that many of his senior executives now own houses. The
couple have been to Europe and Singapore, and only their busy work
schedule keeps them from traveling more often.
Like many newly rich Chinese they seem vaguely uncomfortable
when asked about wealth. Their favorite activity remains walking in
the mountains near Beijing and, following a common Chinese
practice, their 9-year-old daughter lives with her grandmother in
another part of Beijing, where she attends a public school.
For most Chinese the move into the middle class is still a
step-by-step process, with each choosing the components of
middle-class life he can afford.
At 8 a.m. on a recent Saturday morning a group of 20 friends and
colleagues boarded a bus for a resort near Baihuashan, for a
weekend of hiking, boating and karaoke. Young professionals in
their 20s and 30s, they had each paid $50 to join this rite of the
middle class.
Three rows behind him, Xu Guangli, an administrator and a joint
venture company, and Sun Huawei, an assistant to a labor
arbitrator, both 24, discussed their weekend plans. They can not
afford to go abroad, they said, but try to take weekend trips each
month, either on organized tours or by renting cars with friends.
Fei Zinggang, the hand-shaking manager of Tai He Travel, said
his small state-owned travel agency started offering weekend tours
last June when it sensed a market demand and in peak season now
sends out up to 80 travelers a weekend.
The parents at the 21st-Century Experimental School say they
selected the school for its emphasis on creative thinking and
independence not traditional Chinese values.
Zang, the real-estate entrepreneur, who is an avid reader, said
that one of the biggest excitements for him is no longer having to
check the price of books before buying them.
Ms. Zhang, the writer, sounds like an excited teenager as she
describes the sense of freedom that has come with her car: trips to
galleries and to plays, carefree jaunts around a homeland that she
had never explored before.
TOKYO In a few weeks, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto will
face nationwide elections as he presides over the worst recession
in more than 50 years, a limp stock market and the highest
unemployment rate since records began to be kept.
Yet experts overwhelmingly expect his governing Liberal
Democratic Party to do very well. The latest polls show it with
more than five times as much support as any other party.
Now Hashimoto is more likely to do better than ever, for
President Clinton handed him a political gift on Wednesday by
agreeing to a joint U.S.-Japanese campaign to bolster the sagging
yen. Whether or not the jawboning and billions of dollars in
foreign-exchange intervention succeed in propping up the yen, they
will almost certainly succeed in propping up Hashimoto.
The premise of Clinton's decision to go to Hashimoto's aid was
that Japan would take, as Clinton put it, aggressive and bold steps
that would justify a higher rate for the yen. But many analysts
here say that the Japanese political process militates against
fundamental change and that Hashimoto's relative popularity
suggests that the public wants someone like him, a repairman for
the old system rather than an architect for a new one.
All this raises some puzzling questions about the Japanese
political process. In most countries there is a built-in corrective
mechanism when an economy veers off course. Disgruntled voters
evict the old team and choose new leaders who promise to do things
differently. Yet despite eight years of economic stagnation the
Japanese political system has not responded in that way.
Certainly Japan does not have the feel of a country in a severe
downturn. There are few homeless people, soup kitchens,
bankruptcies or vacant buildings. Although there are some
differences in measurements, the record unemployment rate in Japan
is still 4.1 percent, less than the 4.3 rate in the United States.
An old saying defines a recession as when your neighbor is laid
off. When you are laid off it is a depression. By those
definitions, for the great majority of Japanese this is still not a
recession.
The gulf in perceptions inside and outside Japan on the
seriousness of the economic situation here is difficult to
exaggerate.
To Americans and many Asians these days it sometimes seems that
Japan's economy is burning and is threatening to ignite all of Asia
and, perhaps, the United States and Europe, as well. For those
fearing a global economic conflagration, nothing is more
infuriating than the sight of Hashimoto passively watching the
flames and seeming to do little more than blithely insisting that
the fire will eventually subside.
In a similar situation Nero fiddled, but not for eight years that is the kind of grumbling one hears from U.S. officials these
days.
To Japanese officials the foreign carping seems foolish and
petulant. Some say the U.S. government is simply nervous about its
own bubble economy and is looking for a scapegoat to blame when
stock prices inevitably collapse. And most Japanese say the risks
are exaggerated.
Moreover, many Japanese insist that their country is seriously
addressing the recession and the Asian crisis. They note that the
Japanese government has begun a huge stimulus package, the biggest
in the nation's history, and that the government has contributed
far more to Asian bailouts than the United States.
In any case, for all the bewilderment and anger at Japan's
reluctance to do more to stimulate its economy, Hashimoto's
behavior, viewed from a Japanese perspective, makes some sense and
appears in keeping with the public mood. After all, he just
celebrated the Liberal Democratic Party's latest victory, on Sunday
in a parliamentary by-election.
That was the sixth consecutive victory in by-elections for the
Liberal Democrats, and polls suggest that they will also do very
well in elections for the upper house on July 12. The upper house
is much less significant than the lower house, but the election
will nonetheless be an important test of sentiment, and Hashimoto
seems ready to pass with flying colors.
A poll this week in the Yomiuri newspaper, taken just before the
intervention to support the yen, found that the support for
Hashimoto's government had fallen, to 30 percent. But perhaps more
important, 29 percent of those interviewed said they still
supported the Liberal Democrats, compared to 5.5 percent for the
leading opposition group, the Democratic Party.
The Liberal Party, which advocates precisely the far-reaching
economic reorganization and stimulus policies that Washington would
like to see in Japan, had the support of 1.7 percent.
There have been widespread hints that Hashimoto will be more
aggressive in tackling Japan's financial problems immediately after
the election. But that, too, tells something about the public mood.
Instead of promising before the election to address the economic
mess and the mountain of bad bank loans, the speculation is that he
will tackle these issues only after he no longer has to face the
voters.
Morse argues that Japan suffers from cronyism and structural
economic problems quite similar to those of South Korea and
Indonesia. Those countries were bailed out by the International
Monetary Fund on the condition that they accept painful
reorganization.
But Japan has not collapsed in the way that South Korea or
Indonesia did, so Morse said he believed that the political process
would not lead to a fundamental overhaul of the economy.
WASHINGTON India has produced countless styles of manuscript
painting. Among the most poetic, and certainly the most popular
outside India itself, are those that emerged in the 17th century in
the Hindu Rajput kingdoms nestled in the remote mountain valleys of
the Himalayan foothills.
Paintings from the Punjab hills, or Pahari paintings, with their
palettes of vegetable green, dusky orange, and afterglow lavender,
are soaked in a spirit of place. In them, days are lambent, nights
hushed and star-strewn. Figures have a serene perfection. Slender
women wear neat, fitted dresses. Men and gods, adhering to an
ultrastylish ideal of sartorial machismo, sport garlands and
turbans and pearl-drop earrings.
If ever there was a peaceable kingdom, it would seem, this is
it. Yet for all their lyricism, these paintings are often shot
through with unsettled passions. Characters depicted are skittishly
seductive or gripped by panic. Many are obsessed by one overarching
theme: the heartache and joy of religious and erotic desire.
A few of the paintings in the show, which has been organized by
Vidya Dehejia, associate director and chief curator of the Sackler
and the Freer Gallery of Art, are from the plains of Rajasthan in
northwestern India.
But most are from the hills, and many can be traced to the
kingdom of Kangra, where a single royal patron, Raja Sansar Chand
(who reigned from 1775 to 1823), nurtured a distinctive house
style, one that blended Mughal naturalism and stylized Rajput
traditions.
Chand was an ardent worshipper of the god Vishnu, who appeared
in the guise of the blue-skinned cowherd, the deity Krishna; his
cult was widespread in aristocratic circles. And Krishna himself is
the subject of nearly every work here. For without exception these
paintings are illustrations for love poetry in which he plays a
central role.
In many of the poems and illustrations, a second female
character appears, the sakhi or the companion to the heroine. And
she, in her various roles as adviser, comforter, go-between and
witness, provides the thematic link in the Sackler exhibition.
While he lies on the ground, listless with longing, on one side
of the picture, the sakhi kneels gesturing before a nervous Radha
on the other. Meanwhile, the landscape around them is vibrant with
expectation, from the outsize lotuses bobbing away in a pool to the
thickets of trees in every shade of green, their branches swollen
with flowers.
But the romantic meeting is tantalizingly delayed. In an oval
painting from around 1780-90, the heroine is seen wandering off in
a drugged, somnambulistic daze under moonlight, trailing her shadow
behind her, as the sakhi dashes in, having tracked down her young
charge by her fragrance alone.
In another image, Krishna sits by himself in a kind of
spoiled-child funk on a hillside, his garland and cowherd's staff
thrown down, as a sapling bends over him, sympathetically echoing
his dejection.
In this beautiful image, the trees surrounding the god take on a
twisting, embracing sexualized life of their own, as if
anticipating the rapturous activity soon to follow. And such
eroticism, explicit or merely implied, accounts for much of the
charm of these paintings.
Scene after scene has a hectic, grand-opera tension, with
plaintive arias, love duets and mad scenes in which characters
assume codified gestures of desire and despair. And when love
finally sings out at full cry, its force is overpowering. Women
dance like bacchantes under a night sky; Krishna and Radha make
love on a bed of leaves. And in one of the show's earliest works,
dated around 1640 and from the state of Mewar in Rajasthan, the
entire universe seems to have burst into flower.
Although art from both Mewar and Kangra is well known, dozens of
other Rajput courts supported workshops and produced distinctive
painting styles, many of which have yet to be discovered or
properly defined by scholars. Women may well have played an
important role in manuscript production, both as audiences and as
commissioners of books, and this possibility gives paintings like
those at the Sackler a particularly provocative edge.
Yet in the end, it is the sakhi who functions as the stand-in
for most viewers of these paintings. She is part of the drama, but
also removed. She approaches the events as a concerned friend, but
also a voyeur, an amused attendant in the school of love.
Through her eyes we see the story shift back and forth between
sacred and profane. One minute Krishna is God, his blue skin
symbolic of infinite space. The next, he is a pouty Leonardo
DiCaprio-style princeling peeved not to get his way with his lady
of choice.
Such shifting expressive temperatures are found everywhere in
Indian art, and Ms. Dehejia has splendidly suggested their range in
a modestly scaled exhibition much enlivened by wall panels carrying
excerpts from the poems illustrated in each painting.
CPT-DISNEY-NET (Los Angeles) Mickey Mouse wants to make it
easy for non-techies to go cyber-surfing. Disney announced Thursday
spending $320 million to buy into Web search specialist Infoseek
Corp. with the idea of attracting those who don't use the Net. By
Dave McNary.
TEKELEC-SHARES (Los Angeles) Shares of Calabasas, Calif.-based
Tekelec, a mid-size communications component specialist, fell over
10 percent Thursday on concern over a possible dip in the company's
second-quarter orders. By Ben Sullivan.
WASHINGTON As legislation to overhaul the nation's schools
moves toward final approval in Congress, President Clinton and the
Republican majority on Capitol Hill remain far apart on a key
issue, frozen in the ice of uncompromising positions.
In this showdown, the president's veto pen will temporarily win,
and should. But a recent Wisconsin Supreme Court decision has
energized the opposition and suggests that the stalemate could be
as permanently damaging as that over abortion rights.
Although the two sides have many philosophical and practical
differences over education, the most contentious question is that
of taxpayer-funded vouchers to encourage children of low-income
families to attend private secular or religious schools.
Proposed tax-free savings accounts of up to $2,000 a year for
school expenses for families of all incomes, including tuition at
parochial schools, are a variation on the same theme.
The GOP devotion to the concept of subsidizing parents to flee
the public schools is matched in fervor only by the president's
conviction that such a shift would undermine the free public school
system he rightly considers a fundamental bulwark of democracy. It
would divert limited public resources in an always-tight federal
budget.
On Thursday the House approved an education bill that includes
provisions to pay for tax-free savings accounts and vouchers,
deliberately defying the president's threat to veto the entire bill
if they are included. The Senate is due to vote on the measure
soon.
Another recent measure provided for vouchers specifically for
low-income families in the District of Columbia. Clinton vetoed it,
as promised.
The anti-tobacco bill blocked Wednesday in the Senate included
school vouchers for students who have been crime victims on school
grounds. The overall measure was popular with Democrats and was the
most likely vehicle for Republicans to sneak vouchers past Clinton,
but it is a dead issue now.
Meanwhile, the Wisconsin Supreme Court held that voucher
programs can get around the constitutional separation of church and
state by giving public tuition funds directly to parents rather
than to the parochial schools. This dodge enabled the court to
interpret the program's primary purpose as helping parents make
wider choices rather than advancing religion.
The U.S. Supreme Court will ultimately resolve the issue. It is
unrealistic to believe that taxpayer subsidies would not promote a
new elitist state-supported private education system with religious
overtones. But the high bench, in its legal isolation, has not
always understood how scholarly decisions impact on real life.
Voucher proponents claim private schools do a better job of
teaching children than the public schools, and maybe they do.
But private schools have no public accountability. They can be
selective. They can reject for admission students with low grades
or troubled personalities.
They can expel unsatisfactory pupils. They can pay whatever
salaries they want to their teachers. They do not have to provide
special instruction to disabled students.
If a parochial school wants to promote a specific religion, the
state cannot say no.
They provide a great, stimulating social mixing bowl rich and
poor, clever and dense, together in class. It's the American way.
In some places, usually stable middle-class communities, this
ideal still works. Where it doesn't, where cops must patrol the
corridors, the public schools ought to be fixed. The way to do it
is by giving them more care and attention, not less.
SAINT-DENIS, France Referees remained on center stage at the
World Cup Thursday. After FIFA president-elect Sepp Blatter
declared a further crackdown on rough tackles, referees ejected
five players in two games.
The remarks from Blatter have created an atmosphere of near
hysteria. Five red cards were shown Thursday. Any close call became
subject to the strongest judgment. And if Blatter wanted someone to
carry out his directive, he found the right person in Mexican
referee Arturo Brizio Carter during France's 4-0 victory over Saudi
Arabia.
Brizio Carter, who red-carded Italy's GianFranco Zola at Foxboro
Stadium in the 1994 World Cup, ejected Mohammed Al Khlaiwi of Saudi
Arabia early in the game and Zinedine Zidane of France midway
through the second half.
They won in style, exploiting great spaces in the Saudi defense
and their physical superiority, enhanced by the 18th-minute
expulsion of Al Khlaiwi for a tackle on Bixente Lizarazu.
The Saudis could not contain Zidane. And when the team needed an
injection of midfield inspiration, Youri Djorkaeff entered early in
the second half.
The second goal seemed inevitable. The Saudis, hampered by the
ejection and discouraged by France's back four, could not sustain
attacks. This allowed French defenders to advance. Lilian Thuram
made a strong run on the right side and drilled a cross through
Mohammed Al Dayea's hands. David Trezeguet, who had several chances
after replacing the injured Christophe Dugarry (right hamstring) in
the first half, finally converted with a header from the goal area.
The Saudis, a finesse team influenced greatly by the Brazilian
style, were unable to threaten with 10 men. When they attempted to
retaliate, their defense was exposed further.
France could have scored several more goals. The third came
after goalkeeper Fabian Barthez's long clearance was taken by
Henry, who outraced the tiring Saudi defense in the 35th minute.
Seven minutes later, Lizarazu scored off a play started by
Djorkaeff.
Zidane was ejected in the 27th minute after colliding with a
defender and appearing to step on him. Zidane will miss Wednesday's
game against Denmark in Lyon.
But instead of allowing the players and teams to be in the
spotlight, Blatter and his obsessions with refereeing are in danger
of upstaging them.
ST. LOUIS The Opera Theater of St. Louis has grown remarkably
since Richard Gaddes founded it in 1976 as a Midwestern oasis of
contemporary works, operatic rarities and standard repertory,
performed in English by young singers at the beginning of their
careers.
The festival's budget was $139,000 that first season; in recent
years, it has hovered around $5 million. Today, the directorial
reins are held by a triumvirate Charles MacKay, general director;
Colin Graham, artistic director, and Stephen Lord, music director but the original vision has remained largely intact.
John Going, the stage director, had some innocent fun with the
work, moving it from Italy to Buenos Aires but keeping it in the
mid-19th century. If there is no reason for the move, there is also
nothing objectionable about it, and Phyllis Mead took the new
location into account in her amusing and often freewheeling
translation. The set, by James Wolk, offers a panoramic view of
Buenos Aires harbor as a backdrop, with walls, gates and palm trees
defining Don Pasquale's estate. Liz Covey's costumes ornate for
the gentry, motley for the household staff completed the picture.
What makes this production a joy is an ensemble that is vocally
secure and adept at comic timing and interaction.
Mary Dunleavy negotiated the high-flying arias that Donizetti
created for Norina with technical ease and interpretive subtlety.
She also moved comfortably between the two characterizations
demanded of her: that of the graceful young lover and the demanding
shrew. Gregory Turay, a tenor with an attractive timbre and plenty
of power, sang Ernesto's music sensitively. Timothy Nolen played
the title role with a broader range of emotions than is typical,
and Jeff Mattsey was a suitably conspiratorial Dr. Malatesta.
These emotionally bleak stories inspired extraordinary music
from both Janacek and Gounod. When Katya is at her most conflicted,
the music conveys a great deal more about her turmoil and passion
than the libretto (heard in a translation by Norman Tucker). Gounod
achieved a similar effect in a more constricted harmonic language.
Marie Plette sang Katya's music with the intensity and dimension
it demands, and was closely matched in both vocal power and
purposefulness by Robert Brubaker, as Boris, and Sari Gruber, as
Tichon's sympathetic sister Varvara. Michael Hayes as Tichon and
Kathryn Day as Kabanicha provided the necessary texture and
familial counterpoint.
Mary Mills conveyed Marguerite's youthfulness and faith
compellingly, and sang with a touching warmth and beauty. As Faust,
John Fowler was vocally strained, particularly at the top of his
range, and dramatically overwrought, but that made him a good foil
for David Pittsinger's spectacularly agile portrayal of
Mephistopheles.
The cast also included Franco Pomponi, as the hot-headed
Valentin, and Valerie Komar, who sang nicely but tended to overact,
as Siebel, Marguerite's hapless suitor.
Training camp is less than three months away, but the Bruins
were forced to slap an early question mark over their net Thursday
when their No. 1 goaltender, Byron Dafoe, underwent surgery to
repair a slightly torn shoulder capsule.
According to club president/general manager Harry Sinden, the
27-year-old Dafoe was experiencing pain and soreness in recent
weeks while lifting weights at his offseason home in Los Angeles.
A slight tear in Dafoe's left shoulder capsule was repaired
early Thursday morning by Dr. Ron Kvitne, and Dafoe is expected to
need up to 12 weeks to recover.
Rob Tallas spent most of last season as Dafoe's backup after Jim
Carey was demoted to Providence and soon thereafter required
season-ending shoulder surgery. The untested John Grahame, son of
former Boston netminder Ron Grahame, ranks third or fourth on the
netminding depth chart, depending on whether the out-of-favor Carey
is considered a viable option to play here again.
Dafoe and Tallas almost certainly would be the two netminders
protected. Grahame is exempt, having turned pro a year ago. Carey,
owed $5 million over the next two seasons, likely wouldn't interest
the Predators, whose boss is David Poile, the former Capitals
general manager who dealt him from Washington to the Bruins in
March 1997.
If the Bruins look for some insurance in net, said Sinden, they
won't be shopping in the unrestricted free agent market that
includes the likes of Curtis Joseph, Mike Richter, John
Vanbiesbrouck, and Sean Burke. They more likely would be hunting
for someone who has been a backup elsewhere, someone like Dafoe,
who wasn't considered a No. 1 with the Kings when LA dealt him
here. Dafoe sparkled for much of the 1997-98 season, compiling a
30-25-9 mark and a 2.24 goals-against average.
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions of
Friday, June 19, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please
call Tina May at (206) 448-8355.
The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
Friday, June 19 and thereafter. For questions about stories,
contact Tom Hicks at the Daily News, (818) 713-3702.
WASHINGTON In the great congressional smokeout of 1998, fear
of taxes trumped fear of cancer and that's a lesson lawmakers,
congressional challengers, and political consultants will apply to
Washington battles and local campaigns in the future.
The collapse of the antitobacco crusade this week was more
significant as a lesson in political science than as one in public
health. Although proponents of the bill spoke gravely about
tobacco's costs, the proposal failed largely because of fears,
stoked deftly by the tobacco industry, that the bill's new taxes
would provide money for new government spending.
Supporters of the legislation tried to portray it as a victim of
Big Money, but the opponents prevailed by saying that the measure
was a stalking horse for Big Brother and Big Government.
The defeat of the tobacco bill ends one of the two debates the
Republican Congress didn't want to have, but had anyway. The other
one, on the effort to overhaul the nation's campaign-finance
system, will almost surely dribble to a close in the next few
weeks, almost certainly with the same result.
Like the campaign-finance bill, the tobacco legislation was
principally a Democratic initiative in a chamber controlled by
Republicans.
Like the campaign-finance bill, the tobacco legislation was a
symbol of the power of money in politics. The tobacco companies
pumped millions into their fight against the bill, blanketing the
country with advertisements at the local level.
But as combatants on both sides hurled charges and
countercharges Thursday, there were few indications that tobacco
would emerge as a major issue in November's elections. There are
few congressional races where the tobacco bill is much of an issue,
and in those places principally tobacco states such as North
Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky the major candidates almost
uniformly opposed the tobacco legislation.
Even so, the end of the tobacco bill may help some congressional
challengers portray their rivals as tools of big-money interests.
In the Seattle suburbs, for example, former Democratic
Representative Jay Inslee has been describing two-term GOP
Representative Rick White, who opposed the measure, as out of touch
with his constituents and too cozy with special-interest groups.
But the bitter divisions produced by the tobacco debate divisions produced by classic conflicts between freedom and
responsibility underscore the potency that taxes have had in the
American political discourse since colonial days. In the past
quarter-century, moreover, the pressure against hiking taxes has
grown substantially, as the public increasingly has adopted the
view that taxes are the oxygen of big government.
The notion that taxes themselves are as much an infringement of
personal liberty as other forms of government oppression was once
the province of conservative theorists. But it was popularized by
Ronald Reagan and then adopted gradually across the political
spectrum so much so that when the tobacco companies searched for
a weapon to defeat the Senate bill, they gladly picked up the
anti-tax cudgel.
Even proponents of the tobacco measure acknowledged this week
that once the legislation was transformed in the public debate into
a tax bill, the effort was lost. By acknowledging that the tobacco
bill would increase revenues, its proponents made the legislation
vulnerable to charges that it was a means of financing new
government spending.
In truth, the financial scope of the legislation ballooned so
much so that it popped. The bill the Senate walked away from this
week was around $150 billion bigger than the original agreement
worked out with state attorneys general one year ago this Saturday.
Most of that money was to be paid by consumers, not the tobacco
companies.
It quacked like a tax increase and waddled like a tax increase and in the end, it died like a tax increase.
NEW YORK The audience squealed with pleasure every time Stevie
Nicks twirled in the spotlight at Radio City Music Hall on
Wednesday night.
A less worshipful listener heard something else: a singer with
an out-of-tune croak enthusiastically working her way through two
decades' of dewy-eyed narcissism.
More came across as rambling adolescent diary entries. But as
long as her audience wants to believe, she can still play at being
a princess.
A permanent presidential council would bring sustaining power to
race matters and make it harder for future presidents to disband
the panel without being accused of abandoning the goal of racial
harmony, said the Rev. Suzan D. Johnson Cook, a board member from
New York.
The seven-member advisory board, appointed a year ago by
Clinton, is completing recommendations to help the president
identify ways to promote racial harmony and equal opportunity. The
board's final recommendations will be turned over to Clinton before
its one-year charter expires Sept. 30.
At its final meeting Thursday, the board discussed a number of
ideas, including increasing spending on school construction,
boosting the minimum wage and promoting multi-lingualism as a way
to counter calls to make English the official language.
Some of those ideas may make their way into a report that
Clinton will issue this winter. That report will outline not only
the president's vision but also a work plan for the public and
private sectors to help equalize opportunities across the race
spectrum.
To that end, former New Jersey Governor Thomas H. Kean, a
Republican, said Clinton should seek far more than the $5 billion
over five years for school construction contained in his fiscal
1999 budget.
Without providing a figure, he suggested that additional federal
funding for school construction be explored for urban and rural
school districts in high-poverty areas and that those funds be
matched by the states. He also suggested that the federal
government work with higher education institutions to better
prepare teachers. Kean said Clinton should find a way to ensure
that academic tracking, for placing students according to test
scores, does not result in the resegregation of classrooms.
Other suggestions were that Clinton seek an unspecified minimum
wage increase to boost the income of low-wage workers who are
disproportionately minorities, support collective bargaining to
ensure greater equality of pay, and strengthen enforcement of
anti-discrimination laws, all steps that Clinton has already begun
to take.
Board members said Clinton should urge the media, particularly
television networks, to improve the portrayal of minorities. Board
member Oh suggested that Clinton should encourage English-speaking
Americans to learn another language to help reduce hostilities
against immigrants.
DETROIT This city's auto executives have a strong herd
instinct, imitating one another's most popular car designs and
living in the same neighborhoods, but they could not be more
different in their approaches to labor relations as this month's
strike against General Motors has shown.
Stuck in its 16th strike in the last five years, GM has publicly
lashed out this week at the United Automobile Workers. By contrast,
Ford has not had a strike in 12 years and its executives play golf
with UAW leaders. Chrysler's approach to labor relations lies
somewhere in between, with prolonged periods of calm interrupted by
occasional strikes that are usually settled behind closed doors
with little public acrimony.
Each strategy has its defenders, and there has been no sign that
any of the automakers plans to change course. GM contends that
because it produces fewer cars per worker than its rivals, it must
insist that the union allow more flexible work practices and a
steady decline in employment through attrition. GM executives have
vehemently criticized the union even as the company tries to end a
crippling strike at two parts factories in Flint, Mich.
The union contends that their members work hard and that GM has
broken promises to invest more money in the parts factories. The
walkouts have forced the closing of 21 of GM's 28 North American
assembly plants, including the shutdown Thursday of a
midsized-sedan factory in Oklahoma City and a minivan factory in
Doraville, Ga. GM has temporarily laid off 88,800 workers.
Ford sees its labor harmony as a competitive advantage, allowing
it to improve quality and transfer workers more easily from ailing
car factories to ones that make more lucrative pickup trucks and
sport utility vehicles. Chrysler works with the union most of the
time but has sometimes tried to punish local union officials who
lead wildcat strikes or take other steps that could hurt
productivity.
Foreign automakers building cars and trucks in the United States
have kept unions out of their factories, with the exception of
their joint ventures with the Big Three.
The Big Three's contrasting approaches to labor relations start
with the people who run them. Ford has entrusted the task since
1982 to Peter Pestillo, one of Ford's four executive vice
presidents, who is a regular golf partner and close friend of
Stephen Yokich, the president of the UAW. Chrysler has Dennis
Pawley, one of its six executive vice presidents, a rare top auto
executive who worked his way up from the factory floor and a
well-known figure among union leaders as a result. Pestillo and
Pawley both have subordinates who manage the day-to-day
relationship with the union, but they stay in touch with union
leaders.
GM's labor relations have been managed for the last several
years by Gerald Knechtel, one of its 49 vice presidents and a
target of union criticism. Union officials complain that promises
are made by many levels of GM officials with little coordination
and that bitterness results when some of these promises are not
kept.
Union leaders also complain that GM executives ignore them
except during strikes. Basil Hargrove, the president of the
Canadian Auto Workers union, said that while Knechtel's predecessor
had come to Canada twice a year to meet with union officials,
Knechtel had showed up only during the union's 1996 strike against
GM, which lasted three weeks and shut down almost all GM production
in Canada.
Knechtel declined to comment, following his practice during
labor disputes. But Hackworth said that GM's frictions with the UAW
were the inevitable result of GM's need for changes and not the
result of the company's management style. GM produces more of its
own parts than Ford or Chrysler and so has higher overall labor
costs, he said. Outside suppliers of parts tend not to be unionized
and pay much lower wages.
But Wall Street analysts say GM is overstaffed because its
market share in the United States has dwindled for lack of popular
auto designs. Fewer workers are needed to build the shrinking
number of family vehicles that GM sells.
GM sold 6.3 million cars and light trucks in 1985 and 4.7
million last year. By contrast, Ford's sales rose to 3.8 million
last year from 3.3 million in 1985. Chrysler's sales edged up to
2.3 million from 2.2 million in 1985 after adjusting for Chrysler's
purchase in 1987 of American Motors Corp.
ISTANBUL, Turkey Turks who believe that the military has
become too deeply involved in politics here are hoping that the
emergence of a new military commander in August will have a
profound effect on national life.
The five-year term of Turkey's Chief of Staff, Gen. Ismail Hakki
Karadayi, who has led the military deeply into politics in an
effort to stem what he says is the rise of religious
fundamentalism, expires on Aug. 30. His successor is likely to be
an officer who believes that the military should stay closer to its
barracks and further away from politics.
Turkey has had weak and fragmented governments for the last five
years. This week the latest in the line of embattled prime
ministers, Mesut Yilmaz, announced that he would resign at the end
of this year and that new national elections would be held in
April.
As civilian leaders have proved unable to overcome personal and
political rivalries, the role of the military has increased
considerably. It is now the country's most potent political force,
as it showed last year by forcing the resignation of Prime Minister
Necmettin Erbakan, whom officers accused of supporting
fundamentalism.
The military has also taken over principal responsibility for
Turkey's relations with Greece and other nearby countries, as well
as for policy toward Cyprus and toward this country's Kurdish
minority. It encourages prosecutors to pursue cases against
writers, journalists and politicians who express heretical views on
these or other matters.
Military commanders have compiled a list of businesses that
government agencies should boycott because they have been deemed
favorable to political Islam. They are pressing Parliament to pass
a series of anti-fundamentalist laws, including curbs on Islamic
foundations and new restrictions on the construction of mosques.
With the military now so involved in civilian policy, and with
political parties so weak and fragmented, a change in the top
military command might have a far more profound effect on Turkish
life than an election.
The Turkish military command operates under strictly observed
rules and traditions. They dictate that Karadayi will step down in
August and that he will be replaced by the army commander, Gen.
Huseyin Kivrikoglu.
Although Kivrikoglu has kept a low public profile and declines
requests for interviews, officers who know him and commentators who
monitor the army believe that he will seek to curb the military's
political role. Some speculate that he will transfer senior
officers who have directed the anti-fundamentalist campaign and
will abolish the West Working Group, a military intelligence unit
that closely monitors Islamic trends in society.
The final decision about changes in the military command will be
made at the end of August by the Supreme Military Council, a panel
composed of top military and civilian leaders and headed by Yilmaz.
Military commanders have become impatient with Yilmaz for his
failure to press harder against fundamentalism, a policy he has
adopted partly because he does not want to alienate
Islamic-oriented voters. Kivrikoglu is considered not only less
insistently anti-fundamentalist but also more positive toward
Yilmaz.
The accord this week calling for national elections in April
reflected the weakness of the Yilmaz government, which does not
have a majority in Parliament and must therefore cater to a variety
of factional leaders.
The government is so divided that its second-ranking figure,
Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, said he had not signed the
accord and was not certain there would actually be elections in
April.
As bickering among civilian leaders continued this week, the
military-directed campaign against fundamentalism continued. On
Monday, police officers used tear gas and batons to break up a
demonstration of about 1,000 Muslims who were protesting a new ban
on the wearing of head scarves by female university students. The
banned students and their supporters held more protests later in
the week.
It is now back at the Lamb's, in the main theater, with a cast
whose members fill the auditorium not only with song but also with
the sounds of piano, bass, fiddle, guitar, banjo, harp, accordion,
harmonica, cymbals, bells, washboards, wooden spoons and slats, and
even a half-filled soda bottle (great train whistle), most of them
moving from one instrument to another without missing a beat.
The story is a deceptively simple comedy about a service in a
Baptist church in rural white North Carolina 60 years ago, a place
and time beautifully evoked by Peter Harrison's set. The minister
(Robert Olsen) struggles to keep control of the proceedings, but
the choir takes over. The choir is the singing Sanders family: the
quiet operator of a general store and gas station (Bobby Taylor);
his bright and slightly dotty wife (Constance Barron); his brother
(John Griffith), who is sullen but softhearted, and three children:
an awkward but very smart daughter who is the only songless Sanders
(Jonah Marsh) and younger twins (Dionne McGuire Gardner and Sean
Dooley) who give the impression that if their leashes were cut they
would steal the whole show.
For all their sly, Bible-quoting efforts to manipulate one
another, these characters share a deep affection, and the actors so
clearly relish inhabiting the characters that the performance
becomes a delightfully engaging revelation of the rich complexity,
and downright orneriness, of simple people whose faith is powerful
but far from unquestioning. The cast is a fine ensemble. They feel
like a warm old-fashioned family, and they know how to make the
audience feel right at home. All that clapping and singing along
seems as natural as breathing.
By Connie Ray; conceived and directed by Alan Bailey; sets by
Peter Harrison; lighting by Mary Jo Dondlinger; costumes by Pamela
Scofield; musical director, John Foley; musical arrangements by
Mike Craver and Mark Hardwick; production stage manager, Erika
Feldman; technical supervision by Joseph Robinson; associate
producer, Nancy Nagel Gibbs. Presented by Carolyn Rossi Copeland
and Marie B. Corp. At the Lamb's Theater, 130 W. 44th St.,
Manhattan.
PRISTINA, Yugoslavia After taking losses in their fight with
the Yugoslav military, separatist rebels in Kosovo Province have
been bolstered by a huge infusion of weapons and fighters from
Albania and have begun to hit back in recent days, Western
diplomats say.
Guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army have set up roadblocks
on key roads in the province, setting off frequent clashes with the
Serb forces, the diplomats say. There are also daily skirmishes
near Serb police checkpoints.
In response to the increased fighting, the Serbs have been
forced to move in huge, unwieldy convoys of troops, the diplomats
say. Between 40,000 and 50,000 Serb soldiers and special police
forces are now deployed in the province.
Rebel bands control as much as 40 percent of the province, and
the ranks of the guerrillas have swelled since March from a few
hundred fighters to more than 3,000. Weapons, carried by pack
horses and mules, can be seen arriving nightly across the rugged
border with Albania. There seems to be no shortage of volunteers to
join the burgeoning separatist army.
In Kosovo Province, the whir of helicopters ferrying wounded
Serbs to army hospitals, and the grim sounds of automatic fire and
mortar rounds can be heard just a few miles from Pristina, the
provincial capital. More than 300 people are said to have died in
the fighting this year, and many suspect that the casualty figures
may be much higher.
As the situation spins out of control, many Western diplomats,
while calling for negotiations, now concede that the only hope of
ending the war will have to come from outside.
The Yugoslav government, in a move that brings it closer to an
armed confrontation with NATO, said Thursday that it would not
comply with demands to withdraw some forces from Kosovo and halt
the attacks against ethnic Albanians that have driven tens of
thousands of people from their homes.
The decision by Milosevic to defy the international community
seems certain to foretell another round of fighting in the province
and will make it difficult for NATO commanders to back away from
threatened air strikes, according to Western diplomats. Any attacks
could push Washington into the center of another Balkan conflict,
this time against a Yugoslav military equipped with sophisticated
anti-aircraft systems and a large air force.
Included in the Serb forces is a notorious Yugoslav Special
Operations Unit known as the JSO, which was involved in some of the
worst atrocities of the war in Bosnia.
Its troops have been using an armored personnel carrier in
Kosovo that was seized from Dutch U.N. peacekeepers during the Serb
massacre of some 8,000 Muslims in Srebrenica in 1995, according to
Dutch diplomats. Its force of a few hundred men are used to carry
out commando raids, and its presence in Kosovo is seen by many
outsiders as an indication that new attacks are being prepared by
Belgrade against rebel strongholds.
The fighting between the rebels, who want to make Kosovo a
separate state, and the government intensified in March after
Belgrade ordered special police units to crush the center of the
rebel operations in Drencia in central Kosovo. The attacks, which
leveled villages and killed more than 80 people, most of them
civilians, enraged a population that had been content to resist
Belgrade through peaceful means.
Milosevic, after promising U.S. Envoy Richard Holbrooke last
month that he would begin talks with ethnic Albanian leader Ibrahim
Rugova to stave off a threat of sanctions, stepped up his campaign
against the rebels earlier this month. His forces, for the first
time backed by army units, drove some 80,000 people from their
homes along the border with Albania and burned and shelled
villages. The drive was apparently intended to hamper the infusion
of fighters and war materiel into the country.
The latest attacks, which included heavy shelling, led the
Western alliance to threaten Milosevic with air strikes if he did
not withdraw his units, end the attacks and begin talks with Rugova
to return Kosovo's autonomy that was revoked eight years ago by
Belgrade.
The Yugoslav president, after a Moscow meeting on Tuesday with
President Boris Yeltsin, failed to accept the demands of the
so-called contact group, which includes Russia and five other major
powers, to withdraw his special units. The contact group was formed
to handle the crisis in Bosnia.
The tough stance by Belgrade has stiffened the resolve of the
ethnic Albanian leadership and moved it closer to endorsing armed
rebellion. The so-called government in exile for Kosovo Thursday
called on ethnic Albanian villagers in Kosovo to defend themselves
against Serb attacks. The statement, made in Tirana by the five
leading political parties, dealt another blow to Rugova's avowed
pacifism. The parties, however, did not endorse a request by the
KLA leadership to be declared the army of the government, ethnic
Albanian leaders said.
The show's framework is provided by a song Schwinn is composing
for a children's television show, which stars a man dressed as a
frog called Bungee. When Schwinn collapses into a plate of ziti
while lunching with his friend Rhoda (Liz Larsen), he has yet to
complete that song (it's about frogs in the springtime) and the
specter of unfinished work will haunt him throughout his ensuing
ordeal of examinations, surgery and recovery in the hospital.
Bungee (amusingly played by Chip Zien), or the fantasy version
of him, is an active presence in these scenes, tooling around on
his green bicycle and offering alternately chirpy and shrill bits
of wisdom. The use of the character is the show's freshest device,
and the frog-man figures prominently in Schwinn's climactic embrace
of childlike wonder. But the fact remains that Bungee is a
loathsome creature, and it would be far more gratifying to see him
strangled.
The evening is most persuasive when its subject is frustration.
The opening number, in which Schwinn is working with disdain and
exasperation on the Bungee song, is charming and funny; so, in a
creepier vein, is the spectacle of Schwinn's doctor (John Jellison)
delivering a muddled diagnosis with a mad-scientist fervor. And two
of Schwinn's hallucinations, respectively embodied by Ms. Larsen
and Michael Mandell, in a scene-stealing turn as a jocular nurse,
have a weird, compelling spikiness.
The production, the first to come out of Lincoln Center's
recently established workshop for new musicals, looks great, with a
set by the ever-inventive David Gallo that finds convincing visual
metaphors for the out-of-body experience. And the cast is
top-notch. Gets brings an amiable looseness to his part, a sort of
go-with-the-flow passivity that suits the material without seeming
shapeless. Penny Fuller, as Schwinn's mother, and Christopher
Innvar, as his lover, are appropriate mixtures of prickliness and
comfort. And the invaluable Mary Testa shows up as a homeless woman
who offers a downside philosophy of life that Schwinn must
incorporate (sort of) into his revitalized worldview.
Music and lyrics by William Finn; book by Finn and James Lapine;
directed and choreographed by Graciela Daniele; sets by David
Gallo; costumes by Toni-Leslie James; lighting by Peggy Eisenhauer;
sound by Tony Meola; orchestrations by Michael Starobin; music
director/additional vocal arrangements by Ted Sperling; vocal
arrangements, Jason Robert Brown; stage manager, Bonnie Panson;
musical theater associate producer, Ira Weitzman. A Lincoln Center
Theater production, under the direction of Andre Bishop and Bernard
Gersten. At the Mitzi Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center.
In this dizzying paganistic ode to Eros, where the camera almost
never stops moving, the angel sharks have been replaced by the
bodies of restless, hot-blooded adolescents diving and treading
water and nipping on each other in the shadowy depths. The
comparison is made explicit in a scene in which a pubescent swimmer
with an angelic halo of blond hair is shot and the water slowly
turns deep red.
At the center of the film whose cast largely consists of
nonactors gleaned from French stadiums, beaches, Gypsy camps and
housing projects is a brooding, sensual 15-year-old girl named
Marie (Vahina Giocante) who runs wild one summer. Marie snubs the
impoverished local boys in favor of a group of arrogant American
sailors who take her to nightclubs and hotels. Then having had
their way with her, they discard her with brutal contempt, calling
her a Gypsy whore. Marie ends up sharing a brief idyll with Orso
(Frederic Malgras), a rootless, pug-faced petty criminal who robs
houses and hangs around with the local youth gangs.
These scenes give you the feeling that gang rape and gang war
are almost the same thing and that given the right circumstances
they are inevitable eruptions of male aggression.
After a while, the images of water, rocks and half-naked bodies
merge into a vision of the film's characters as untamed forces of
nature who are the fauna of the environment in which they cavort.
Viewed this way, you begin to stop thinking of them as civilized
humans bound to any social or moral order, even when they commit
crimes.
Written and directed by Manuel Pradal; in French, with English
subtitles; director of photography, Christophe Pollock; edited by
Valerie Deseine; music by Carlo Crivelli; production designer,
Javier Po; produced by Philippe Rousselet; released by Sony
Pictures Classics.
For some years, the policy has been no secret to the dictators
or those Americans who bother to pay attention. The results have
been productive, no denying that. 
For China it produced U.S. satellite technology to sharpen the
aim of its missiles, for North Korea a growing trade in the export
of missiles and for Iraq a free hand to slaughter all Iraqis who
oppose Saddam Hussein and a plan to end sanctions and start again
to rebuild its military power. For America it also produced
something: a trash can full of broken promises. 
But Wednesday, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright added a
high shine to Clintonian appeasement policy by including under its
sheltering arms the government of Iran. Yes, indeed, the Iran that
executed thousands of its own citizens, held 53 Americans hostage
for 444 days in the U.S. Embassy, the same Iran that boasts of its
infiltration of Bosnia, that killed Jews in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and almost daily sends to Damascus a planeload of
weapons and funds for terrorists around the world. 
The Clintonian rationalization will be that the choreographed
overture to Iran is support for Iranians who voted for Khatami. In
truth, it will strengthen their tormentors, make it more difficult
to overthrow them. 
By pretending that the Iranian regime that lives by terrorism
might end it, by absolving countries pouring money into the
government and therefore its killers and floggers, the U.S.
announces it will not try to punish or even hamper the regime, and
despite the past, would help it. 
Why does Clinton do these things approve strengthening Chinese
missile forces, permit Saddam to slaughter his people, build the
prestige of the Iranian despotism, court dictators, and earn
nothing much more for the United States than a good view of the
backsides of our European allies as they walk away from us toward
the trade troughs of tyrannies? 
Let Clinton and his entourage conjure up phony rationalizations but we know, we know and so does Congress. Money. 
Like most of America's allies and partners, trade is his
overriding goal in dealing with the dictatorships trade, not
freedom, not human rights, not principle. He has lined America up
at China's trough, costing America $50 billion a year for the
privilege, and is now jostling for a similar place at Iran's. 
For the mirage of money, under the tutelage and rod of
China-trade lobbies, he leads America to suffer political loss and
humiliation, threats to its security and the end of principle in
foreign policy. 
I wonder by now is he even capable of seeing where American
principle lies? After all, it does not show on the balance sheet that is, not until some new Pearl Harbor, or invasion of Kuwait, or
some second explosion at the World Trade Center, something like
that.
ATLANTA -- Companies that plan to participate in Georgia's
soon-to-be deregulated natural gas market are maneuvering for
position with less than one week left before the Public Service
Commission sets ground rules for just how competition will work.
The PSC staff and representatives of the marketing companies,
including Atlanta Gas Light Co., held talks Thursday for the second
straight day, seeking an agreement on operational details of the
new system.
Under a new state law, sales of natural gas will be opened up to
competition later this year, much in the way long-distance
telephone service has been deregulated. Atlanta Gas Light Co. will
become a distribution company responsible for transporting gas to
homes and businesses. Marketing companies will be responsible for
selling gas to homes and businesses.
Shell Energy Services Co., a subsidiary of Houston-based Shell
Oil Co., became the third company Thursday to apply for
certification as a marketing company for natural gas.
Houston-based Enron Corp. and PGE Energy Services of California
have already filed papers. Up to a dozen companies are expected to
apply before the July 16 deadline. Competition begins Nov. 1.
On Thursday, discussions dealt with such issues as how a
computer system will track gas sales, and the amount of information
marketing companies will get from Atlanta Gas Light Co. on
potential customers.
AGL has also aked for an $18.6 million rate increase, in part
to pay for the transition to competition. But the PSC staff is
expected to recommend a $30 million rate cut.
The commission and several marketing companies, however,
expressed concern Thursday that Atlanta Gas Light and its marketing
affiliate may have jumped the gun on the deregulation process.
At issue are about 500 letters sent by Atlanta Gas Light
Services, AGL's marketing affiliate, to prospective business
customers seeking authorization to access their accounts at the gas
company to help prepare sales proposals.
But Bobby Baker, chairman of the PSC, said the mailing appeared
premature and said all marketing companies should be granted equal
access to consumer information.
The PSC staff is expected to make a recommendation soon on
whether Atlanta Gas Light Services can proceed using the AGL name.
Jim Hurt, the state's consumer utility counsel, has recommended the
name be approved.
In another last-minute flareup, Atlanta Gas Light Co. and SCANA
are facing off at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the
federal agency that regulates interstate gas sales, over gas
supplies for the Georgia market.
Mark D. Caudill, vice president/rates and regulatory affairs at
AGL Resources Inc., the gas company's parent, said the company is
seeking authorization from FERC to pass along to consumers the
benefits of discounted rates for gas from an interstate pipeline.
But, he said, SCANA filed a protest that has delayed a decision
in an apparent bid for competitive advantage.
ATLANTA -- Credit card processor Nova Corp. agreed to acquire
Nashville-based rival PMT Services in a stock swap valued at about
$1.23 billion, based on Thursday's closing price of $33.93 3/4 for
Nova's shares, which fell $1.25.
The deal, expected to be completed in late September or early
October, would make Atlanta-based Nova the nation's fourth-largest
provider of credit card processing for merchants, after First Data,
National Processing and Paymentech. Nova is now fifth.
The combined company, with revenue of $1 billion and 1,600
employees, would manage 350,000 accounts on which about $40 billion
is charged a year. First Data, which plans to move its headquarters
to Atlanta from New Jersey, is nearly six times larger, processing
$232 billion in transactions for merchants.
Nova, which said it doesn't plan any layoffs after the merger,
authorizes credit card and debit card transactions for merchants,
captures the data and pays the merchants. It also provides
value-added services, such as information on how frequently
customers shop.
PMT Services shareholders will receive 0.715 of a share of Nova
stock for each PMT Services share they hold. All told, Nova plans
to issue a total of 36.2 million shares. Nova now has a similar
number of shares outstanding, said James M. Bahin, vice chairman
and chief financial officer.
Before Thursday's merger announcement, analysts had expected
Nova to earn 75 cents a share this year, a 29 percent increase from
last year's 58 cents a share.
First Union owns 21 percent of Nova's shares outstanding, Bahin
said. That will drop to about 10 percent when the deal with PMT
Services is completed, he said. First Union got its stake in 1996,
when the two companies combined their merchant processing units.
WorldCom, which provided the initial seed money for Nova and
continues to provide the company's telecommunications links, will
see its stake drop to about 2.5 percent from 5 percent, Bahin said.
It first appeared in 1946 when a generation hardened to reality
by the Depression and war let it pass without saluting. They knew
from bitter experience that the whole town never turns up to
slather its George Baileys in money and love.
The movie caught on only later, in the television age when the
country was far enough removed from hard times to put up with such
hokum about human nature. Now here it is: officially certified by
the American Film Institute as the 11th-best movie of all time.
Mean old Lionel Barrymore, you told it like it was.
These prominent Americans must have been too busy becoming
prominent ever to have experienced the ecstasy of chewing Jujubes
while Gary Cooper was ordering his pirate's funeral.
For Correll, who is both chairman of the Atlanta chamber and CEO
of Georgia-Pacific, the question was especially timely. Only that
morning, Correll and the chamber unveiled plans for a six-month
effort to come up with an action plan to address the metro area's
transportation and air quality problems.
The chamber is stepping head-on into an issue that has paralyzed
the community. Despite months of studies and meetings, various
state or regional entities haven't been able to fashion a
resounding consensus on this complex and politically volatile
issue.
The chamber hopes to be the catalyst, as it has in the past when
economic well-being hangs in the balance.
Sensing a need for leadership on the issue, the Atlanta chamber
started pushing forward an idea of an influential group of the key
players from both business and government. The prime movers were
Correll and Atlanta Chamber President Sam A. Williams, who was not
present at his chamber board meeting Thursday because of the death
of his 94-year-old father.
The chamber's initiative could fill a vacuum that has existed
for months, if not years.
Metro Atlanta's transportation problems have not been a state
priority, and looming elections don't help. Gov. Zell Miller has
put off much of the issue to the next governor, and other key
offices, such as lieutenant governor, also are on the verge of
transition.
The Atlanta Regional Commission has tried to address the issue
on a metrowide basis, but it lacks the muscle to get its
recommendations sanctioned by state officials or respected by local
developers or government officials. The Regional Business
Coalition, which has been studying the air quality issue, also has
shied away from bringing state agencies to the table to discuss
their differences.
The Journal article, a summary of long commute times, air
quality problems and even incidents of road rage, shows the world
is beginning to take notice. And that, as much as anything, may
prod leaders to take a stand.
When no other group emerged to lead on this issue, Williams and
Correll drafted the respected consulting firm of McKinsey Co. to
help distill problems and solutions through the group named
Thursday. They also met two or three times with Miller in the past
six weeks.
While the governor has kept a low public profile on the issue,
Correll credited him with providing sound advice on how the chamber
should form the group and ensure it produces action.
For instance, the group will make its recommendations in early
December just after the elections but in time to bring proposals
before the General Assembly in January. That timing enables the
group to approach a newly elected governor and lieutenant governor
somewhat outside the political fray. The group will convene July 1.
The carefully selected members are not allowed to send
representatives.
It's too early to know if the Atlanta chamber's initiative will
produce the elusive consensus and real solutions. But for the first
time, it will bring key players to the table on equal footing.
Most significantly, ARC, the Georgia Department of
Transportation and the Environmental Protection Division will be
there along with key business and political leaders in the region.
The potential is for the group to hand over to the next governor
a game plan he could call his own. Correll said it will be his
major initiative of the year. But as can be said of Atlanta
commutes, getting from here to there won't be easy.
ATLANTA -- Southern Co. is now the 49 percent minority owner of
South Western Electricity in Britain after selling a $170 million
stake to a Pennsylvania utility.
Atlanta-based Southern, which bought South Western, or Sweb,
three years ago, announced Thursday it had sold 26 percent of the
utility to a subsidiary of PPL Resources.
It was also first in a series of investments by U.S. utilities
in Britain's power sector. Since Southern's acquisition, U.S.
electric companies have spent $20 billion on 12 British regional
electric distributors. Many are reportedly reassessing their
positions following disappointing financial results.
First, the Conservative government blocked the company's 1996
attempt to take over National Power, a major British power supplier
then valued at $10 billion.
While the tobacco bill killed Wednesday was not as focused on
public-health measures as the one introduced last year, its demise
did spell the death of new funding for programs health officials
say are urgently needed, from treatment of smoking-related diseases
among the uninsured and poor to the prevention of youths from ever
starting to smoke.
The bill levied a new, $1.10-a-pack tax over five years, which,
combined with other penalties on tobacco companies, would have paid
for the new measures.
Most prevention programs under the bill would target children
because 99 percent of smokers begin in their youth, according to
studies done by researchers at the University of Massachusetts
Medical Center in Worcester, Mass.
The bill killed Wednesday did not have the public-health
benefits of the original bill drafted last June, which allocated
$500 million to anti-smoking campaigns, $1 billion to smoking
cessation programs and research, $368.5 billion to treat indigent
citizens with tobacco-related disease. That measure also called for
larger warnings on tops and fronts of packages and the disclosure
of all tobacco company research and advertising strategies.
But although senators last week had gutted monies specifically
dedicated to public health measures, lawmakers and health officials
still had hoped to reinstate them in conference committee
negotiations with representatives of the House, after it had passed
a tobacco bill of its own.
Three dozen states are suing tobacco companies to recover costs
of treating smoking related diseases, with many planning to use
proceeds from the suits for anti-smoking programs as well. Both
California and Massachusetts have already combined anti-smoking
advertising with educational programs to curb smoking.
According to a study by the Amereican Cancer Society, under the
public health provisions of the original bill introduced by Senator
John McCain of Arizona, five million smokers a year would have
received help to stop smoking, more than 20 million teenagers would
have been exposed to anti-smoking advertising, and 50 million
children in grades K-12 would have participated in school based
prevention programs.
Scully has never thrown a pitch, hit or caught a ball for the
Dodgers. Yet Scully is the Dodgers.
For so many who have come to know Scully's soothing voice, he is
more than simply a baseball announcer. He is part of the family.
When Scully, 70, gets behind the mike for the first pitch of the
1999 season, it will mark the beginning of his 50th season with the
Dodgers.
He has outlasted all the players, general managers, managers,
even the O'Malley family. But Scully is as humble as ever, a man
thankful for his life, his family and for the opportunity he was
given to become one of the best and most famous announcers in the
history of sports broadcasting.
QUESTION: You got an announcer's job with the Brooklyn Dodgers
in 1950, one year out of Fordham University. In your wildest
dreams, could you have ever imagined your career becoming what it
is?
ANSWER: Oh, no. You have to remember that I wanted to do this
when I was 8 years old. When I was in college, I got a job in
Washington D.C. as a staff announcer. And that, I thought, was a
major step in the right direction. Then I was offered a permanent
job as a staff announcer in Washington. And each of those steps, I
thought, was the beginning of the end.
It was the best. And then, to get the Dodger job was
overwhelming. But to even project beyond my opening day of my first
season, no, you never think what's going to happen, will I survive.
Nothing like that at all, no.
A: I think a man is defined by his job. You say, `There's
so-and-so the doctor, there's so-and-so the lawyer, there's
so-and-so in construction, there's so-and-so the sports announcer.'
I think your job, certainly for a man, becomes part of him, and
vice-versa.
Q: Your voice alone has become such a big part of life for many
people in Southern California. You're in their living rooms via the
television. You're in their cars via the radio. Can you understand
how so many people seem to feel they know you?
A: I hope they do. I really hope they do. I'm extremely aware of
two things. My good fortune, for which I have overwhelming
gratitude. And the other is I know I have a big responsibility. I
have a responsibility to all those people you just mentioned who
watch and who listen.
I try extremely hard, as best that I can, to come to work well
rested, well studied, having done homework. I try so hard to be as
accurate as humanly possible. All of that because of the
combination of gratitude for the job and also the feeling that I
owe these people. I have a tremendous obligation.
A: Well no, not really. Not to define favorite. I would say --
and I think you could understand -- when I first started, I started
with the Boys of Summer. And so when I look back on those younger,
more impressionable days, that team had a tremendous impact on me.
Campanella, Hodges, Robinson, Reese, Cox, Snider, Furillo,
Newcombe, Erskine, Branca, the list goes on and on. So that team
has meant a great deal. The other thing, that team stayed together
for a while. So that would be a favorite.
The 1988 team, that seemed to be the most fortunate Dodger team
I've ever seen. I will always think of that team as a team of good
fortune.
And of course, the first time the Dodgers won a championship
here (1959). I will also think of that as something precious and
special.
Q: With so many great moments in Dodgers history, was there ever
a moment when it was nearly impossible for you to remain an
unbiased announcer and not a fan who just wanted to stand up and
cheer and show emotion?
A: I'll put it to you this way. In 1955, I was doing the last
half of the last game when the Dodgers won the World Series. And it
was the only one the Brooklyn Dodgers would win. And they had gone
through a great amount of frustration over the years.
So at the very end, on the last out, the ground ball to short,
the throw to first, I said, very simply, `Ladies and gentlemen, the
Brooklyn Dodgers are the champions of the world.' And all that
winter, people asked me, `How could you have been so calm?' And the
answer was that I wasn't calm at all. But if I had tried to say
another word, I would have broken down and cried, it was so
emotional.
Another time certainly would be Kirk Gibson's home run (in the
1988 World Series). The fact that it was such a theatrical home
run. He wasn't on the bench, then he limped out onto the field. A
fellow on one leg swinging really feebly several times. And then to
hit a game-winning World Series home run, that was pretty dramatic.
But along the way there have been so many. The three perfect
games, the 20 no-hitters that I've seen. All of those were great
moments. But there are only one or two where I had to hold myself
in check, and certainly, the Brooklyn Dodgers' world championship
and the Kirk Gibson home run would be high on the list.
Q: What has been the most difficult part of your job? Is it the
travel, the time away from family?
A: Exactly. I think when I'm doing the game, I'm happy, I'm
busy, I'm distracted from anything else because I'm totally
immersed in the game. But you know that's only three or four hours
of a 24-hour day.
The 24-hour day at home is fine. You have plenty of things to
do, obligations, plus your own family. But on the road, those 19,
20 hours grow very heavy. And the older you get, the more you
realize No. 1, the most precious thing is time. And No. 2, when
you're on the road, as well-intentioned as you might be, you still
kill time. And that hurts.
Q: Will you know when it is time to retire, or will you ever
retire?
A: As of right now, no, I don't think I will. As long as my
health stays, and as long as I still get goosebumps on great plays,
as long as I anticipate a game, then I know all the juices are
still flowing.
The day that I come to the ballpark and sit there and I'm
totally distracted and daydreaming, the day that somehow or other I
say `Oh, so what,' then it would be time. But I haven't experienced
any of that, even close. I'm happiest when I'm actually doing it.
Q: This past year has been so eventful in Dodger history, from
the O'Malleys selling the team to the trade of Mike Piazza. Does it
surprise you or have you been around long enough to come to expect
that the game is going to change?
A: Well, you get to a point of perspective where you know
nothing is forever, including yourself, including your job,
including anything and everything you see in the material side of
the world. But still, for me it was bittersweet when Peter O'Malley
made the annoucement that he was selling the ballclub.
I love the family, he's a particularly close friend of mine, so
I was sad. But at the same time I was happy because if that's what
Peter and Terry wanted, then I was happy for them.
As far as personnel upheavals and changes, that goes with the
territory. Maybe some seem more shocking than others, but they all
come and they all go.
Q: Does the sale of the club have any effect on how long you'll
stay with the Dodgers?
A: As far as the little relationship we have day-to-day with
News Corp., with Fox, it's been wonderful. I don't have even the
slightest doubt that this is where I want to be.
Q: Baseball has gone from being America's pastime to a sport
that is struggling to compete in popularity with other sports. Is
it still a great game or is money and greed ruining it?
A: It's still a great game. In fact, in my own opinion, it's the
best game. However, there are cycles, just like the seasons. There
was a long period of time where baseball was No.1. Then there was a
time, probably in the '60s and '70s, where professional football
was No. 1. Then people got tired of all the violence.
The swing right now is to basketball. Basketball may or may not
have labor problems this summer. Eventually, the pendulum will
swing the other way. And baseball will come back.
The big thing is the game of baseball is bigger and better than
anyone associated with the game. I can remember as a little boy,
one of the first bits of philosophy I've heard. It was: Baseball
has to be a great game to survive the people who run it.
Well, I can add to that. Baseball has to be a great game to
survive the people who play it. Basically the bottom line is, it is
a great game. And no matter what happens with the labor, with the
money, with the whatever, the game itself is pure enjoyment.
ATLANTA -- Kevin White and his 10-year-old daughter were looking
forward to a vacation to Disney World. But the computer installer
at a General Motors Corp.'s assembly plant had to cancel the trip.
He has the time, but not the money.
White left the plant yesterday with about 4,000 other United
Auto Workers who won't be on the job because of a lack of parts
from two striking plants in Flint, Mich.
By Thursday, 20 GM assembly lines in the United States, Canada
and Mexico had been idled or slowed by the strikes. An estimated 88
percent of the No. 1 automaker's North American production
capacity, about 20,000 vehicles a day, is now being lost, according
to CSM Forecasting.
While most GM dealers across the country still have several
weeks' supply of new vehicles on their lots, deliveries of new cars
and trucks have nearly ended as the strikes have dried up the
production pipeline. GM stock was down 18 3/4 cents to $69.56 1/4
Thursday.
If there weren't a strike going on, workers would receive
holiday pay for the first week of the shutdown and vacation pay for
the second, he said. To be eligible, they must have worked the
scheduled workday before that holiday. However, this year, that
looks unlikely.
While most workers asked said they support the strike in Flint,
their reactions to being out of work were mixed.
But not having an average steady paycheck, typically $500 a
week, is causing others to worry. After leaving his shift Thursday,
White went directly to a StaffMark, an employment agency handing
out flyers as workers streamed out of the plant gates.
Workers can file for unemployment benefits, up to $224 a week.
If denied, they can receive strike pay of $150 a week. Although
they are not on strike themselves, they will not receive
supplemental pay from GM, which normally is given during a layoff
period.
WASHINGTON The Shays-Meehan campaign finance bill suffered a
setback Thursday when the House voted to change the rules of debate
and allow consideration of 258 amendments during seven more weeks
of floor action.
Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican and
co-sponsor of the bill, joined other Republican moderates in
agreeing to the new rule. He consented after House leaders pledged
to complete work on the legislation by the August recess, said
Shays spokesman Seth Amglott.
The 258 amendments to be considered for this single issue is
more than the total number of amendments approved for debate by the
House Rules Committee in the past 11/2 years, said lawmakers.
The strategy was at odds with the usual practice of limiting
debate and amendments since Republicans gained control of the House
in January 1995.
ARLINGTON, Texas Rangers pitching coach Dick Bosman teaches
pitchers to throw nothing but strikes. Hitting coach Rudy Jaramillo
emphasizes that hitters should swing at nothing but strikes.
Jaramillo, who watched as the Rangers accumulated the
second-most walks in the league through Tuesday, isn't the only one
who is mystified. Just exactly what constitutes the strike zone
remains a mystery in the major leagues. Manager Johnny Oates
fiercely debated that point yesterday with plate umpire Ted Barrett
and was ejected for arguing balls and strikes.
Individual umpires do have different strike zones. In the AL,
John Hirschbeck and Durwood Merrill have a reputation for large
strike zones, while Terry Craft and Al Clark are considered the
toughest on pitchers. One veteran umpire watcher said John Shulock
and Tim Tschida are the best at calling balls and strikes.
Hall of Famer Ted Williams used to study umpire tendencies. It
was his belief that taller umpires called more high strikes and
shorter umpires had a lower strike zone.
Another perception is that younger umpires have larger strike
zones, a reputation enhanced when rookie umpire Ed Bean was behind
the plate for Kenny Rogers' perfect game. However, it remains
difficult to get any pitch above the waist called a strike.
But any pitcher throwing above the waist without Wetteland's
fastball is asking for serious trouble, whether it's a ball or a
strike.
Greer said he shudders at the thought of a 95-mph fastball at
the chest being called a strike.
Bosman said the best way to get a generous strike zone from an
umpire is to throw strikes. As Bobby Witt learned early in his
career, hard-throwing pitchers who can't get near the strike zone
get no benefit of the doubt when they occasionally find the corner.
MOSCOW The Russian government announced Thursday that it would
seek $10 billion to $15 billion in additional assistance from the
International Monetary Fund.
Russia has been quietly negotiating with IMF representatives for
weeks over the conditions for additional aid. But Thursday marked
the first time that it has publicly declared its position.
With its financial markets still reeling from the flight of
foreign investors from emerging markets, Russia is approaching a
critical round of talks with the fund.
Stanley Fischer, the second-ranking IMF official, plans to come
to Moscow early next week to meet with Prime Minister Sergei
Kiriyenko and other top aides. The purpose of his visit is take the
measure of President Boris Yeltsin's new team and assess its plans
for dealing with the financial crisis.
The fund is also planning to send a separate team of experts.
But while Russia's officials and Western investment bankers have
been heartened by the reports of the IMF visit, not all the news
was encouraging.
Thursday the IMF said it was delaying the disbursement of the
next $670 million installment of the $10 billion loan because the
government has not fulfilled all of the conditions for receiving
the money. The IMF indicated, however, that it expected the $670
million to be disbursed next week.
Russia's financial markets have continued to be very shaky. One
big concern is that the Central Bank's reserves, which are about
$14.5 billion, are not sufficiently larger to prop up the ruble.
Another worry is that Russia is sitting on a mountain of short-term
debt, which it has financed by selling Treasury Bonds at huge
interest rates.
The IMF is not the only source of financing. Russia has also
sought to sell Eurobonds. Thursday, Russia sold $2.5 billion in new
bonds. But the fund is still a key source of potential financing.
The IMF sent the Russian government a confidential memo last
week outlining its conditions for billions of dollars in new aid.
One major condition was that the government slash its deficit to
2.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product by 1999, well
under the 4.5 percent target originally envisioned by the
government.
Some pro-reform officials say they agree in principle with the
requirements but worry that the government may not be able to meet
all of them.
For example, one condition is to enact a new tax code. But that
means winning over a Communist-dominated Parliament.
The new deficit target is considered to be very ambitious. And a
suggestion that Gazprom, the huge natural gas monopoly, be broken
up is generally considered to be unrealistic by Russian officials.
The Hearst News Service will file or has filed these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston
Chronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.
TOBACCO (Washington) In the fallout of the tobacco bill
collapse, President Clinton says he and Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott discussed forming a bipartisan group to offer a new,
presumably more palatable bill. Meanwhile, some Democrats are
portraying the Republican Party as a subsidiary of the tobacco
industry for its role in the killing the tobacco bill. By BENNETT
ROTH.
RENO-JASPER (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno offers to
help prosecutors in the Jasper, Texas, hate-crime case as the small
town struggles with the cost of trying three white suspects in the
killing of a disabled black man. By MARK HELM. (Already filed)
BUSH-FUND-RAISERS (Washington) With polls showing George W.
Bush heading toward a landslide re-election, the Texas governor and
potential Republican presidential candidate attends two major
fund-raising events in the nation's capital for his campaign back
home. By JOHN C. HENRY.
CLINTON-CABINET (Washington) President Clinton officially
nominates his ambassador to the United Nations, Bill Richardson, to
become secretary of the Energy Department, and nominates his
special envoy to the Balkans, Richard Holbrooke, to succeed
Richardson. By NANCY MATHIS.
FAKE-ASTRONAUT (Houston) A man who gained entry to several
government facilities by claiming to be an astronaut, an ex-CIA
agent and a Medal of Honor winner will continue to be held for
psychiatric examination, a federal magistrate rules. Relatives say
the man, Jerry Allen Whittredge, has been delusional for years. By
RAD SALLEE.
HABITAT-HOUSTON (Houston) Volunteers and new homeowners
discuss the Habitat for Humanity's progress in building 100 homes
for needy families in Houston. By LISA CHMIOLA and JAMIE STOCKWELL.
MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) It is still a bad educational idea,
but the Wisconsin Supreme Court decision allowing parents to send
their children to religious schools with tax-funded vouchers is
energizing the conservative school-choice movement. Let's improve
the public schools, not run away from them. By MARIANNE MEANS.
(Already filed)
BBN-ASTROS (Houston) Riding high after an uplifting
ninth-inning rally Wednesday, the Houston Astros wrap up a
three-game series against the St. Louis Cardinals at the Astrodome.
By CARLTON THOMPSON.
THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) A good example of mendacity and
hypocrisy is the tobacco industry's $40 million propaganda campaign
to make it appear that the defeated anti-tobacco bill was just
another manifestation of lawmakers' greed for more money to
increase the size of government. By ROBERT E. THOMPSON. (Already
filed)
The wage the government has set about $6 an hour for adults is not as high as union leaders had hoped. But in a country whose
once-powerful unions were all but emasculated by Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s, the plan was seen as an important
victory for workers' rights. It will take effect next April.
In announcing the plan, Board of Trade president Margaret
Beckett said the gap between lowest- and highest-paid workers had
almost doubled in the last two decades. She accused the previous
government of abandoning the working poor to the whims of stingy
employers.
Under the plan, workers aged 22 and older will receive a minimum
of about $6 an hour. Those from 18 to 21 will receive a lower rate,
of about $5 an hour, which will increase to about $5.35 in June
2000. The minimum wage will not apply to younger people or to those
on apprenticeships.
The plan, the government said, will increase the wages of some 2
million people who currently earn less than the proposed minimum,
some of whom are working for less than $1.50 an hour.
The opposition Conservative Party, which has pressed for a
minimum income level, with pay subsidized by benefits, rather than
a minimum wage, attacked the plan.
Since the Labor government came into power last year, it has
been examining ways of putting a minimum wage in place. But the
question of what the rate would actually be has been the subject of
bitter debate.
A group called the Low Pay Commission, set up by the government
to study the issue, recommended that the rate be set at about $6 an
hour, the rate the government has adopted. But union
representatives have pushed for about $7.70 an hour, roughly half
of the median salary for men in Britain.
But Mrs. Beckett said the lower rate was necessary to keep young
people working and to encourage employers to train them.
Thursday, after Woodward arrived back in England a convicted
felon, the disillusioned vocals fell silent, and she spoke up for
herself: loudly, boldly and defensively.
In a clear voice tinged with an American accent, Woodward
proclaimed her innocence in the death of Matthew Eappen, blamed a
flawed US justice system for her fate and insisted she has not sold
her story to the British press.
Woodward was asked if she had a message for the child's parents,
Sunil and Deborah Eappen, who filed a wrongful death lawsuit
against her earlier this week.
It was the first time the 20-year-old au pair has spoken
publicly since she was found guilty of manslaughter in the death of
Matthew, the 8-month-old infant who died in her care in February
1997.
On Tuesday, the SJC upheld her manslaughter conviction but
refused to order a new sentence, freeing Woodward to leave Boston
for England. The next day, she caught a first-class seat on a
British Airways overnight flight.
Though several reporters accompanied Woodward on the plane to
London's Heathrow Airport, bodyguards including a Massachusetts
state trooper in full uniform paid by the airline barred anyone
from getting close to her or her father.
The first-class tickets, worth $4,200 each, were donated by a
benefactor who wished to remain anonymous, according to Andrew
Miller, the local Member of Parliament for Woodward's home district
of Cheshire. Miller, who organized the press conference at the
Manchester airport, maintained the tickets were not paid for by a
media organization.
When the Woodwards arrived in London, a pack of British and
American reporters and cameramen trampled each other to get as
close as possible to the somber-looking father and daughter.
Though they were to fly from London to Manchester in a smaller
jet, British Airways told Woodward and her father that they could
not guarantee security from reporters on the plane. As a result,
Miller drove the Woodwards 200 miles north to Manchester Airport
for the press conference.
Reached by phone in Chicago, Deborah Eappen's brother, Paul
Spellman, critized Woodward for failing to acknowlege his sister
and brother-in-law during the press conference, and said the family
is offended that she still won't acknowlege her responsibility.
Back in Elton, Woodward was escorted by local police to her
front door. She bounded out of a chauffered minibus and hugged her
sister Vicky. Cassie, the family's German shepherd, joined in the
celebration.
The Woodward family then posed for photographers on their front
stoop under rainy and gray skies, then disappeared into the house.
Later, Woodward withdrew to the bedroom she kept as a teenager,
filled with stuffed animals and lined with posters of British rock
groups Pulp and Pet Shop Boys.
Woodward's arrival home was greeted with near and deliberate
silence from residents. Few villagers were on the street as
Woodward's calvacade drove by.
Many said they are still embarrassed by images of supporters
quaffing champagne and singing soccer victory songs after
Woodward's conviction was reduced to manslaughter six months ago.
Others said they have become disillusioned after allegations that
the Woodwards misused money in their defense fund, and reports that
one of Woodward's lawyers, under arrest for drunken driving,
blurted out that she had come to believe her client was guilty.
Stop, as they once exclaimed in Certs commercials: You're both
right. Sales pitches for a wide variety of products are indeed
being infused with increasingly explicit images and language, which
until recently had been considered too daring for conventional
advertising.
The trend to be rude, crude and sometimes lewd is bringing the
American advertising sensibility somewhat closer to the attitudes
that have long prevailed in Europe, where consumers are routinely
exposed to naked bodies, swearing and obvious sexual situations in
brand campaigns.
Though Americans are still unlikely to see a bare-breasted woman
utter a four-letter word in a commercial, provocative ploys that
were once confined to ads for niche products in fringe media baggy jeans advertised in snowboarding magazines aimed at young
men, for instance are making their way into the mainstream.
The penchant to test the boundaries of taste is just another
example of how advertisers try to stay contemporary, updating how
they speak and behave to reflect how consumers actually speak and
behave.
Displaying undraped body parts or using a vernacular term for a
child of unmarried parents is also seen as a method for marketers
to capitalize on the recent loosening of strictures in films,
television programs, music, greeting cards and other forms of
popular culture. Another factor is the increasingly detailed news
coverage of sexual topics ranging from the Monica Lewinsky matter
to the introduction of Viagra.
Some see the increase in foul language, bathroom humor and bawdy
imagery as an inevitable result of the evolution of mass
communications in American society.
Others condemn the changes as ploys by advertisers to get
noticed in the same manner that children shout dirty words in
public to embarrass their parents. Those critics view the trend as
distressing evidence of the further coarsening of public discourse.
Bodily functions from passing gas and urination to vomiting and
defecation are depicted and alluded to in advertising for shoes,
automobiles, software, games even food.
Then there is the more daring sexual imagery, extending far
beyond traditional realms like fashion and fragrance advertising
into such categories as shampoo, beer, video games, cars and
resorts. Some ads flaunt signs of arousal, others are festooned
with phallic symbols while still others present simulations of
sexual intercourse.
Though a good deal of this advertising is salacious, in many
instances the ads are meant to be playful, elbowing consumers in
the ribs with a wink.
That was the intent of a campaign last year to promote Bermuda
tourism. These ads showed a lovestruck couple enjoying a vacation
amid exaggerated symbols of amour: windsocks rising in a stiff
breeze, golf balls slowly being sunk, tall lighthouses looming over
landscapes.
The inclusion of questionable material in advertising is not
new, of course. Milder forms of sexual innuendo have been used in
advertising for decades. More recently, many smaller marketers
determined that they could overcome consumer ennui as well as the
handicap of being outspent by larger competitors by lacing their
campaigns with heavier doses of suggestive material.
For instance, ads by DeVito/Verdi for Daffy's, a chain of
discount clothing stores, mocked the prices charged by department
stores by arranging the sleeves of a shirt so that they made a
dismissive gesture that many consider offensive.
The push to get noticed by performing the advertising equivalent
of dropping one's pants has had larger consequences.
Among the blue-chip brands that have recently sponsored one or
more ads that in some fashion tested the limits of acceptability
are Altoids, Elizabeth Arden, Audi, Bass, Budweiser, Casio,
Columbia Sportswear, Grey Poupon, Gucci, Kraft, MM/Mars, Miller
Lite, Nike and Toyota.
Does that mean that the bold and brassy or the vulgar and
tasteless style of advertising is already going out of style?
Yes, and no.
There is a watercolor, painted with her happy blues and reds and
a touch of leaf green (in her work, one often finds leaf green),
that the artist Nelly Toll made as an 8-year-old child in wartime
Poland. It depicts a little girl with a red ribbon in her hair
brushing her big, docile shepherd dog in a large wash basin, while
her mother prepares food in their enormous kitchen.
In reality, Ms. Toll and her mother, in 1943, had no home. Ms.
Toll's younger brother had been one of the first Polish Jews to be
sent to Auschwitz. Her father was in the ghetto, where he would
die. Ms. Toll and her mother spent much of the war hiding from the
Nazis in the two-room apartment of a gentile couple. When there
were visitors, mother and daughter hid in a space so narrow they
had to stand sideways. As for dogs, Ms. Toll had a terror of them.
Ms. Toll has master's degrees in counseling, art therapy and art
history. She slips into the jargon and makes a second getaway.
Where does the trick come from that enables one to do a reverse
print of reality, throwing up pretty watercolors in yellows and
reds when you are living in the colors of genocide and war?
Ms. Toll painted 64 watercolors in the 13 months she and her
mother were in hiding. (Six will be auctioned at Sotheby's next
Friday.) All show scenes of a happy childhood.
Ms. Toll, who favors dangling earrings and has an accent
evocative of borscht, is a welcoming, exuberant sort.
Her ability to convert scenes of war to scenes of seeming
normalcy, Ms. Toll believes, was the gift of her mother, Rose.
After the war, Ms. Toll's mother remarried and had another
daughter. The family came to the United States in 1951. Today, Ms.
Toll seems to inhabit the world she painted as a child: leaf-green,
happy domesticity. Married, with two children and five
grandchildren, Ms. Toll lives in a suburb of generous green lawns.
She is an adjunct professor of creative writing. She also lectures
on Holocaust art.
During her time in hiding, did she ever paint a picture that was
not sad?
When she experienced other difficulties in life, did she turn
from them? How did she behave when her mother was dying of cancer,
five years ago?
Her wish to keep where she lives and works out of the papers?
A Galveston man who allegedly gained entry to a NASA mission
control room and a Navy flight simulator by claiming to be an
astronaut, an ex-CIA agent and a Medal of Honor winner, will be
held for further psychiatric evaluation.
After a hearing Wednesday, U.S. Magistrate Judge Calvin Botley
ruled there is probable cause to continue holding Jerry Allen
Whittredge, 49, who was jailed May 30 on a federal criminal
complaint.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Schultz said Thursday that
Whittredge will be sent to a federal medical prison facility, such
as one in Fort Worth, for observation by government psychiatrists.
Botley approved a 30-day detention that could be extended for
15-day intervals if doctors need the extra time, Schultz said.
Whittredge is accused of lying to federal agents on several
occasions, punishable on conviction by five years in prison per
count, and of impersonating a federal employee, punishable by three
years per count. Each offense also carries a fine of up to
$250,000.
Although the government normally has 30 days after arrest to
obtain a grand jury indictment, the clock stopped after about two
weeks so that Whittredge's mental state could be evaluated, Schultz
said.
Described by high school classmates in Port Arthur as a talented
orator with an interest in science, Whittredge allegedly talked his
way into a flight simulator at the Naval Air Station at Kingsville
and into NASA's mission control room in Huntsville, Ala.
He allegedly lied to officials at those sites to obtain access
and later to investigators in the case.
WASHINGTON President Clinton on Thursday named United Nations
Ambassador Bill Richardson as his choice for energy secretary and
tapped veteran diplomat Richard Holbrooke for the U.N. post.
Flanked by his foreign policy team in the Rose Garden, the
president also called on Congress to pass legislation paying the
more than $1 billion the United States owes the United Nations in
back dues. The bill is stalled because conservatives insist on
including anti-abortion language in the measure.
Richardson, 50, a former New Mexico congressman who gained a
reputation as an international trouble-shooter prior to being the
U.N. ambassador, will become the highest ranking Hispanic in the
administration. He replaces Federico Pena who served as
transportation secretary and most recently as energy secretary.
Clinton continued to signal his emphasis on clean energy
alternatives as he emphasized the issue of climate change in
announcing Richardson's appointment.
Holbrooke, 57, brokered the 1995 Dayton Accord that brought a
restless peace to Bosnia after four years of civil war and most
recently worked on quieting the issue of Cyprus that has long
divided Greece and Turkey.
Holbrooke, his voice wavering, recalled his father taking him to
see the newly built U.N. buildings as an 8-year-old and telling him
they would become the most important in the world.
WASHINGTON As a congressman and later as the Clinton
administration's chief delegate to the United Nations, Bill
Richardson displayed a flair for missions that required a sense of
derring-do, like the time he persuaded officials in Pyongyang to
release an American who stole into North Korea to convert all its
citizens to Christianity.
Richardson's model as free-form diplomatic troubleshooter has
been as much Indiana Jones as Henry Kissinger as he has traveled to
odd and sometimes fearsome parts of the world, including Sudan,
Iraq, Serbia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Myanmar, in addition to
North Korea. On many of those missions he has often been successful
in winning the release of hostages from governments and warlords
when traditional diplomacy had failed to do so.
In choosing Richardson to be his new energy secretary, President
Clinton has given him an assignment which traditionally carries far
less glamour and less opportunity for a high public profile. But no
one in the capital expects Richardson to recede into relative
obscurity.
But even as people expect him to be confirmed by the Senate, no
one expects that process to occur without its own drama. As U.N.
ambassador, Richardson played an intriguing, perhaps significant,
role in the Monica Lewinsky story and he would likely be questioned
about it at any confirmation hearing.
Ms. Lewinsky is the former White House intern who is at the
center of the current investigation by Whitewater prosecutor
Kenneth Starr, of Clinton. Starr is investigating whether the
president had an intimate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, lied
about it under oath and encouraged her to conceal it as well.
When Ms. Lewinsky was leaving a job at the public affairs office
at the Pentagon last fall, Richardson met with her in his official
suite at the Watergate apartments to discuss a possible job for her
the U.S. mission at the United Nations. He offered her a job which
she declined in favor of a corporate post in New York.
Investigators are trying to find out if the job offer from
Richardson was part of an inducement for Ms. Lewinsky not to say
anything damaging about the president.
William Blaine Richardson was born in Pasadena, Calif., on Nov.
15, 1947, and graduated from the Middlesex School and Tufts
University, both in Massachusetts. As a young man, he was
considered a major-league pitching prospect. He and his wife,
Barbara, who have no children, live in the Waldorf-Astoria
apartment provided for U.N. ambassadors.
In one of his most celebrated missions, Richardson successfully
negotiated the release of three Westerners including a U.S. pilot
in the middle of the Sudanese desert. He persuaded the rebel
leaders to drop their demand for millions of dollars in exchange
for tons of food along with jeeps and radios.
As Washington's U.N. ambassador, Richardson compiled what
diplomats have viewed as an impressive list of achievements,
including persuading the new leader of Congo to allow an
investigation of human rights abuses and as a principal advocate of
a tough U.S. policy towards Iraq.
He recently has been criticized by some diplomats for failing to
perceive, during a visit to New Delhi, India's intentions to engage
in nuclear testing.
In May, Richardson became the first U.S. Cabinet official to
visit Afghanistan in more than two decades and obtained an
agreement from the warring factions to begin peace talks, and he
was Clinton's choice to try to ease the dying leader of Zaire,
Mobutu Sese Seko, out of office.
Richardson was regarded warmly at the United Nations, especially
among the diplomats of the developing world who are often ignored
by U.S. officials, for his backslapping, informal nature and his
political skills. He made much of his part-Hispanic background and
liked socializing with delegates.
WASHINGTON In a move certain to draw a presidential veto, the
Republican-controlled House approved legislation Thursday that
would allow parents to set up tax-free savings accounts to help
cover tuition at private or parochial elementary and secondary
schools.
The bill, which passed 225-197, would allow parents, relatives,
friends and even corporations to contribute up to $2,000 a year per
child into tax-free savings accounts that could be used for public
school expenses as well.
The legislation also expands the amount Congress approved last
year for college and other post-secondary education savings
accounts from $500 to $2,000 per child. The measure also included a
provision offered by Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth, that will
allow the creation of tax-free, prepaid college tuition plans for
both private and public institutions.
The bill is expected to pass the Senate later this month, but
President Clinton has promised to veto it on grounds it would
undermine the public education system by encouraging parents to
send their children to private and religious schools. Clinton
appears at the moment to have the upper hand on the issue because
supporters of the savings accounts do not have the two-thirds vote
needed to override a presidential veto.
Archer also emphasized that the savings accounts could be used
to help with school-associated transportation costs and the special
needs of disabled children.
The savings account measure is expected to cost the federal
government about $1.6 billion over the next 10 years. Clinton and
other opponents of the bill say that the money could be put to
better use by building more schools to help reduce class sizes and
by hiring more qualified teachers.
So far, Republican leaders in Congress have blocked Democratic
bills that would fund the hiring of 100,000 more teachers and
increase the budget for new schools and expanded child-care
programs. Instead, they've made tax breaks through the savings
accounts the centerpiece of their education agenda.
House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land, said one of the
goals of the GOP education agenda is to improve public schools by
making them more competitive. Offering tax breaks, he said, is one
way to accomplish that goal because it pressures public schools
raise their standards.
The Republican bill also includes $217 million for the creation
of a literacy program to help train more teachers in reading
instruction. It also encourages states through financial incentives
to establish regular teacher testing programs as well as merit pay
scales to help reward teachers for exceptional work. XXXXXXXXEND OF STORY
Thursday, after Woodward arrived back in England a convicted
felon, the disillusioned vocals fell silent, and she spoke up for
herself: loudly, boldly and defensively.
In a clear voice tinged with an American accent, Woodward
proclaimed her innocence in the death of Matthew Eappen, blamed a
flawed US justice system for her fate and insisted she has not sold
her story to the British press.
Woodward was asked if she had a message for the child's parents,
Sunil and Deborah Eappen, who filed a wrongful death lawsuit
against her earlier this week.
It was the first time the 20-year-old au pair has spoken
publicly since she was found guilty of manslaughter in the death of
Matthew, the 8-month-old infant who died in her care in February
1997.
On Tuesday, the SJC upheld her manslaughter conviction but
refused to order a new sentence, freeing Woodward to leave Boston
for England. The next day, she caught a first-class seat on a
British Airways overnight flight.
Though several reporters accompanied Woodward on the plane to
London's Heathrow Airport, bodyguards including a Massachusetts
state trooper in full uniform paid by the airline barred anyone
from getting close to her or her father.
The first-class tickets, worth $4,200 each, were donated by a
benefactor who wished to remain anonymous, according to Andrew
Miller, the local Member of Parliament for Woodward's home district
of Cheshire. Miller, who organized the press conference at the
Manchester airport, maintained the tickets were not paid for by a
media organization.
When the Woodwards arrived in London, a pack of British and
American reporters and cameramen trampled each other to get as
close as possible to the somber-looking father and daughter.
Though they were to fly from London to Manchester in a smaller
jet, British Airways told Woodward and her father that they could
not guarantee security from reporters on the plane. As a result,
Miller drove the Woodwards 200 miles north to Manchester Airport
for the press conference.
Reached by phone in Chicago, Deborah Eappen's brother, Paul
Spellman, critized Woodward for failing to acknowlege his sister
and brother-in-law during the press conference, and said the family
is offended that she still won't acknowlege her responsibility.
Back in Elton, Woodward was escorted by local police to her
front door. She bounded out of a chauffered minibus and hugged her
sister Vicky. Cassie, the family's German shepherd, joined in the
celebration.
The Woodward family then posed for photographers on their front
stoop under rainy and gray skies, then disappeared into the house.
Later, Woodward withdrew to the bedroom she kept as a teenager,
filled with stuffed animals and lined with posters of British rock
groups Pulp and Pet Shop Boys.
Woodward's arrival home was greeted with near and deliberate
silence from residents. Few villagers were on the street as
Woodward's calvacade drove by.
Many said they are still embarrassed by images of supporters
quaffing champagne and singing soccer victory songs after
Woodward's conviction was reduced to manslaughter six months ago.
Others said they have become disillusioned after allegations that
the Woodwards misused money in their defense fund, and reports that
one of Woodward's lawyers, under arrest for drunken driving,
blurted out that she had come to believe her client was guilty.
AUSTIN Republican Rick Perry and Democrat John Sharp are
virtually tied in their race for lieutenant governor with a third
of the likely voters undecided, the Texas Poll indicates.
Republicans lead all the other campaigns for statewide executive
offices, the poll showed, except for the attorney general's race,
where Democrat Jim Mattox is trying to reclaim the post he held for
eight years.
The survey of 691 likely voters was conducted June 1-12 by
Scripps Howard and the Office of Survey Research at the University
of Texas. It did not include judicial races.
Perry, the current state agriculture commissioner, leads Sharp,
the state comptroller, 35 percent to 31 percent, in the race to
succeed Lt. Gov. Bob Bullock, who is retiring in January.
Perry's support was identical to the 35 percent he received in a
Texas Poll conducted in March, but Sharp dropped 10 percentage
points from his March showing. The level of undecided voters,
meanwhile, increased from 19 percent to 32 percent.
Austin political analyst George Christian said Republican
candidates were benefiting from Gov. George W. Bush's popularity at
the top of the GOP ticket. Bush has a 53-point lead over Democratic
challenger Garry Mauro, according to the same poll.
Christian said Mattox, who won two races for attorney general in
the 1980s and ran unsuccessfully for governor and U.S. senator
since then, led partly because he is better known than Cornyn.
1) Republican Carole Keeton Rylander, a Texas Railroad
commissioner, leads Democrat Paul Hobby, a Houston businessman, by
38 percent to 26 percent in the race for state comptroller.
Thirty-five percent of respondents are undecided.
2) Republican David Dewhurst, a Houston businessman, is backed
by 37 percent of likely voters in the land commissioner's race.
Twenty-four percent favor state Rep. Richard Raymond of Benavides,
the Democratic nominee. Thirty-eight percent are undecided.
3) Former Secretary of State Tony Garza, the Republican nominee,
leads Democrat Joe B. Henderson, 43 percent to 23 percent, for the
Texas Railroad Commission, with 33 percent undecided.
4) Former state Rep. Susan Combs of Austin, the Republican
nominee for agriculture commissioner, leads state Rep. Pete
Patterson of Brookston, the Democratic candidate, 39 percent to 27
percent with 33 percent are undecided.
Both the March poll sample and the current poll sample included
31 percent Republicans, poll director Ty Meighan said. But the
share of Democratic respondents dropped from 34 percent in March to
25 percent in this survey.
According to the Texas Poll, Sharp, who has been trying to
distance his campaign from that of Mauro, the Democratic
gubernatorial nominee, is favored by 30 percent of independent
voters, who are key to statewide elections.
Garza, who is trying to become the first Hispanic Republican
elected to statewide office in Texas, has a 48 percent to 31
percent lead over Henderson among Hispanic voters and a 43 percent
to 21 percent lead among Anglos.
WASHINGTON President Clinton and congressional leaders from
both parties jockeyed Thursday for political advantage from the
Senate's votes Wednesday night to shelve comprehensive tobacco
legislation.
Without offering many details, House Speaker Newt Gingrich said
that he would put forward next week a low-budget alternative to the
Senate bill, a measure that would be tightly focused on
discouraging teen-agers from smoking. Gingrich said the bill would
go before the House for a vote in July.
The Senate bill would have raised the price of cigarettes by at
least $1.10 a package over five years, allowed the Food and Drug
Administration to regulate cigarette advertising and marketing and
forced the tobacco companies to pay stiff penalties if the level of
teen-age smoking did not fall to specified levels.
After debating the bill for a month, the Senate set it aside
Wednesday night. An effort by supporters to win the 60 votes
necessary to cut off debate and bring the measure to a final vote
fell 3 votes short. All but two Democrats voted to stop the debate,
but they were joined by only 14 of the 54 Republicans who voted.
Democrats swore that they would bring up the measure again and
again this year, but a vote Thursday illustrated how dim the
prospects are that they will succeed in getting the bill passed.
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle offered the original Senate
bill as an amendment to a bill providing money for energy and water
projects. The Daschle effort was blocked, 54-44, on a party-line
vote.
At a joint news conference, Daschle and House Minority Leader
Dick Gephardt struggled for new ways to attack the Republican
opponents of the legislation.
His bill, Gingrich said, would give the Food and Drug
Administration new authority to regulate the marketing of
cigarettes and would have provisions to restrict teen-agers' access
to cigarettes.
Rep. Deborah Pryce of Ohio, who heads the Republicans' group
developing the bill, said that the measure would also offer
inducements to states to withdraw the driver's licenses of
teen-agers caught buying or possessing cigarettes.
BOSTON Nearly three out of every 10 households with children
in Massachusetts have no father in the home, according to a report
released Thursday by the Massachusetts Family Institute.
In its second annual report on Massachusetts families, the
institute estimated that 29 percent of families had no fathers
living with them in 1997, up 2 percent since 1995 and almost
quadruple the percentage in 1960. The estimates were generated for
the institute by the Massachusetts Institute for Social and
Economic Research in Amherst using US Census data. 
Jetta Bernier, executive director of the Massachusetts Committee
for Children and Youth, said the issue of fatherlessness resonates
with many child and family advocacy groups, liberal and
conservative.
But, she said, lack of education and job training, and the
failure of wages to keep pace with inflation, have made it
difficult for low-income men to form stable, strong relationships
with their children and their mothers.
Thousands of patients who were taking a blood pressure drug
called Posicor which was withdrawn from the market on June 8
because of dangerous interactions with many other medications are
at risk of life-threatening reactions if doctors abruptly switch
them to alternate medications, researchers warned Thursday.
An estimated 200,000 Americans, and 400,000 worldwide, were
taking Posicor before the manufacturer withdrew it earlier this
month. The drug had been approved only a year earlier for high
blood pressure and chest pain.
Posicor's manufacturer, Roche Laboratories, has recently
confiscated supplies of Posicor from pharmacies and hospitals. But
an unknown number of patients still may have unused supplies of the
drug.
Moreover, some specialists said, many doctors may not realize
the dangers of switching abruptly from Posicor to another drug of
the same type, known as calcium channel blockers.
It was already known that Posicor, known generically as
mibefradil, should never be taken along with two widely prescribed
calcium channel blockers called verapamil (brand names Calan,
Isoptin or Verelan) or diltiazem (Cardizem).
However, the authors of the upcoming AMA Journal report said no
one had realized the risk of switching to other calcium channel
blockers before Posicor had been flushed from patients' systems.
Among those other drugs are nifedipine (Adalat or Procardia),
felodipine (Plendil), and nimodipine (Nimotop).
He added that patients who had been taking Posicor should
probably not be taking another heart and blood pressure drug called
a beta blocker, such as timolol (Blocadren) or propranolol
(Inderal), for at least 14 days after stopping Posicor.
The problem, experts said, is that Posicor lingers in the body
for days. Roche issued a letter to doctors a week ago advising a
delay of seven days after discontinuing Posicor before beginning
treatment with most other calcium channel blockers or beta
blockers.
Horowitz said patients could safely be switched from Posicor to
other types of blood pressure drugs, called ACE inhibitors or
angiotensin-II inhibitors. However, Dr. Irene Gavras of Boston
Medical Center said it most patients should wait for Posicor to be
washed out of their system before beginning any other drug.
Acting commissioner Bud Selig has not decided when to call the
owners together to elect him commissioner, a Major League Baseball
official said Thursday, but the meeting will very likely take place
after the All-Star Game.
In a terse statement Thursday, Selig said that discussion of his
willingness to take the job was premature and that he had not yet
accepted it. An article in The New York Times on Thursday said
Selig had decided to accept the position full time.
Owners and officials throughout baseball said Wednesday, and
others confirmed Thursday, that Selig had responded to a large
group of owners who want him to be commissioner by signaling his
intention to accept the job.
Major league rules stipulate that a vote for commissioner has to
be done with a written ballot. Since the owners' next quarterly
meeting is not until September, Selig is expected to call a special
meeting to hold the election. He has to give the owners 10 days'
notice.
If Selig had decided not to accept the job, Jerry McMorris of
the Colorado Rockies, the search committee chairman, would have
presented four candidates to the ruling executive council,
according to one official close to the commissioner search.
National League president Leonard Coleman was the only one of the
four who is already in baseball. The official did not identify the
three people outside baseball.
McMorris declined to comment on the candidates. He also declined
to discuss Selig as commissioner because, he said, the Milwaukee
Brewers' owner has not told him he wants the job.
Because Selig owns one of the teams he would be overseeing, he
is expected to take some action regarding the Brewers. The most
likely option is that he would put his share of the team into a
trust.
This is the second search since Fay Vincent resigned as
commissioner in September 1992 that has ended without a candidate
other than Selig being considered by the executive council.
The Democrats plan to pound the Republicans on the smoking issue
through the November elections, arguing that they are doing the
bidding of the tobacco industry.
And the Republican leadership will buck any attempt to resurrect
the $516 billion anti-smoking legislation that would have raised
cigarette prices by a $1.10 a pack.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga, said a plan to be debated
next month would likely include an anti-smoking advertising
campaign and provide incentives to states to discourage teen-age
smoking, such as denying driver's licenses to underage smokers.
The measure would also give the Food and Drug Administration the
authority to regulate tobacco products and would curb tobacco
marketing to teens. However, it would not include the hefty price
increases that public health advocates say is necessary to
discourage teens from buying cigarettes.
On Wednesday, after four weeks of debate, a minority of senators
were able to avoid a straight up or down vote on the anti-tobacco
bill sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and effectively kill
the measure through parliamentary maneuvers.
The next day, Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.,
signaled that his party intended to keep the issue alive by trying
to attach the anti-smoking bill to an unrelated appropriations
bill.
The effort failed. But Daschle sounded the theme echoed
throughout the day by fellow Democrats that tobacco industry
contributions to the GOP played a big role in the legislation's
demise.
At the White House, President Clinton suggested that the
Republicans had responded to a $40 million tobacco advertising
campaign which portrayed the bill as a big-tax, big-government
scheme.
But the president said that he had heard that a bipartisan group
of eight senators may be formed to try and salvage the anti-tobacco
initiative.
However, many of the extras tacked onto the bill had been pushed
by Lott's fellow Republicans, including Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
who tied up the Senate for days over his proposal to cut taxes for
married couples.
Public health advocates, still reeling from the defeat of a bill
they have labored over for much of the year, also said they are
unlikely to support measures that do not substantially increase the
price of cigarettes.
They added that they plan to make the public aware of the 42
senators who helped bury the tobacco bill.
The public health organizations have spent about $2 million on
public relations campaigning, but have been far outspent by the
tobacco giants.
A tobacco industry lobbyist said the TV, radio and newspaper ad
campaign will likely continue as the House considers legislation
and possibly into the election period to help boost lawmakers who
opposed the McCain bill.
While the tobacco executives dodged a sizeable financial hit
with the death of the McCain bill, they still must deal with the
numerous state lawsuits that would have been settled by the McCain
bill.
The tobacco industry has already reached settlements with
Minnesota, Texas, Florida and Mississippi for a total of $36.5
billion in damages. The death of the Senate bill will not affect
those payments.
Republicans leaders say they do not believe the tobacco issue
will resonate with voters in the fall.
But a recent poll by the independent Pew Research Center found
that by 62 percent to 29 percent the public favors the government
taking some sort of action against the tobacco companies.
Poll director Andrew Kohut said that the Democratic argument
that the GOP is tied to the tobacco industry could hurt Republicans
because it confirms voter suspicion that the party is beholden to
big business.
However, Kohut said that support for action against tobacco
companies tends to decline somewhat when specifics, such as raising
taxes, are mentioned.
GOP pollster Bill McInturff said that while the McCain bill was
probably too big and complex, Republicans would be misreading
public sentiment if they believed the public opposed doing
something about tobacco.
WASHINGTON The Clinton administration on Thursday mounted its
most detailed defense of its satellite export control policy, as
three top officials said that China's military had not benefited
from transfers of sensitive American technology and that safeguards
were in place to prevent any such leakage.
The spirited rebuttals by senior officials from the departments
of Commerce, State and Defense marked a counteroffensive against a
growing Republican-led attack on the administration's handling of
satellite exports to China, a policy that Republicans have charged
threatens American national security.
The warning by the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,
contained in a memorandum apparently sent to State Department
officials, was made public at the House hearing. The memo undercut
one of the White House's fundamental reasons for granting waivers
to allow satellite exports to China despite a ban imposed after the
1989 massacre in Tiananmen Square.
But the agency's advisory was not included in the State
Department's official recommendation to the White House earlier
this year. President Clinton approved the waiver last February,
despite objections from the Justice Department that it would
undermine an ongoing criminal inquiry into whether two satellite
makers divulged sensitive information to Chinese rocket scientists.
In an afternoon Senate hearing, Sen. Max Cleland, D-Ga., became
one of the first Democrats to openly criticize the shift of
licensing authority for commercial satellites to the Commerce
Department from the State Department in 1996.
The back-to-back hearings featuring the administration witnesses
capped a frenzied day on Capitol Hill over the wide-ranging China
accusations, which comes just a week before Clinton visits China.
George Tenet, the director of Central Intelligence, updated the
House Intelligence Committee in a closed, 2-hour 30-minute briefing
on a series of conflicting government assessments as to whether two
satellite makers who are the focus of the Justice inquiry Loral
Space Communications and Hughes Electronics jeopardized
national security by discussing the results of their independent
review of a failed launch of one of their satellites on a Chinese
Long March missile in February 1996.
With little dissension, the House on Thursday approved a
resolution, 409-10, to create a special select committee to lead
the House inquiry into the China accusations. The 10 who voted
against the resolution were Democrats.
Despite the resolution's bipartisan backing, Democrats
criticized Republicans during the debate for spending too much
money on duplicate investigations of Clinton and Democratic
fund-raising practices.
And they expressed concern that the work of the select committee
would fall captive to what they called a Republican witch hunt to
tarnish Clinton and curry favor with conservative voters.
And by transferring commercial satellite licensing authority to
the Commerce Department, the Clinton aides said, the administration
was completing a shift that Bush started in late 1992. In a
nutshell, the State Department considers national security
implications for sensitive exports, while the Commerce Department
also weighs American commercial interests.
The General Accounting Office said this shift in licensing
authority had loosened controls of satellite exports. But Reinsch
disagreed, saying the administration had added safeguards,
including a broader role for the Pentagon and intelligence agencies
to review export applications. Critics say these protections still
fall short of the State Department's regime.
TOKYO Japan's prime minister is furiously thrashing out the
details of what the government hopes will emerge as a landmark
blueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts.
And the blueprint is likely to be an important topic during
talks when the deputy U.S. Treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers,
meets with Japanese government officials and party leaders on
Friday.
After playing down the bad-loan problem for years, the
government now acknowledges that clearing away the loans may be the
single most important factor in building confidence overseas and in
giving a lift to the economy.
The problem loans, which have swelled to more than $600 billion more than the size of the entire Chinese economy have been a
drag on the economy for years but now the government seems
increasingly determined to clean up the mess over the next three
years.
Some foreign investors are wary of new promises from the
government because they have been let down so many times. But other
analysts and economists say that while enormous uncertainties
remain, there are signs that the government may finally be ready to
implement the Total Plan, as it is being called here.
The changes would take time but they could result in a sounder
banking sector, a more vibrant real estate market and a healthier
economy overall.
But Yoshitomi argues that up until now, only the politicians
have broken from the pack to tackle the bad debt while the
regulators and the banks themselves have shown enormous reluctance.
The Total Plan is being hammered out by about two dozen
high-level Liberal Democrat politicians and bureaucrats, who will
convene a major session next Tuesday to review a draft. The
chairman is Okiharu Yasuoka, a Liberal Democrat member of the lower
house.
The plan has been through many versions and is still changing,
and about $17 billion has been set aside for it in the government's
$123 billion stimulus package. As described by government
officials, economists and bankers, the Total Plan focuses on the
bad loans and on the properties Japanese banks are stuck with
because they were the collateral for the loans.
In the past banks have often set aside reserves for questionable
loans but they generally have not sold those properties or
liquidated the bad loans. One result has been a huge drag on the
property market and a continuing burden on the banks.
The Total Plan calls for measures to encourage the banks to sell
the properties and remove both the loans and the collateral from
their books. This may be a wrenching process, for the sale of so
much real estate could drive property prices lower, and the
obligation to face up to the problems could force weak banks out of
business. This could be another blow to confidence in the Japanese
economy.
But supporters say that the plan at least offers a way out of
the mess, even if it is a risky and laborious passage.
This would be the clearest break from the current system in
which all banks, strong and weak, are pulled along together by the
government.
The government already has a Resolution and Collection Bank,
which can absorb failed institutions, but its activities are not
comprehensive enough to deal fully with bankrupt banks.
Ryuji Konishi, an economic consultant and former banking
executive who favors the idea, compares the bridge bank to a
fishnet that catched only the fish too weak to swim away on their
own.
Not surprisingly, the weak banks are extremely sensitive to this
proposal because they do not want to be, in effect, taken over by
the government.
Earlier this year, the government also put together a $221
billion bank bailout that would support depositors and help the
banks rebuild their capital.
But the banks have drawn only 1.8 trillion yen. Weak banks are
reluctant to ask for money for fear that such an admission of
weakness would drive down their share prices.
Some foreign investors would like to see the government put up
even more than 30 trillion yen, either through a bridge bank or
another rescue package.
NEW YORK A surge in companies issuing stock for the first time
and a raging pace of corporate takeovers powered robust
second-quarter earnings at two leading brokerage firms.
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Co., the second-largest American
investment bank by capital after Merrill Lynch Co., said earnings
for the period ended May 31 jumped 45 percent, compared with a year
ago, to $854 million, or $1.37 a fully diluted share. Lehman
Brothers Holdings, the fourth-largest brokerage firm, said earnings
rose 168 percent from a year earlier, to $324 million, or $2.12 a
share.
Both companies said a blistering pace of mergers and
acquisitions in America and overseas bolstered advisory fees. The
companies also reported sharp increases in equity and debt issues
and trading.
Despite signs that the long-running bull market in stocks may be
slowing, both companies said record backlogs of new debt and equity
issues and ongoing mergers promise continued strong earnings growth
into the second half of the year.
One reason for the sharp gains was the record pace of merger and
acquisition activity. Morgan told Wall Street analysts in a
conference call that the value of deals in which companies bought
other companies totaled $1 trillion in the first half of this year.
Companies also sold nearly half a trillion dollars in securities
during the first half. Both figures were records.
Both companies benefited from a strong international presence.
Even in Asia, where financial markets have plunged, results were
sharply higher. That is because volatility in those markets means a
sharply higher pace of selling and buying, and the brokerage
companies earn their fees based on transaction volume.
Like the United States, Europe has had a strong stock market,
but that market is seen as at an earlier stage in its rally.
Moreover, market activity looks set to increase in the run-up to
European monetary union early next year, with some American
securities companies well placed to benefit from that surge.
Morgan's strong performance comes about one year after the
institutional business of Morgan Stanley merged with the retail
brokerage operations of Dean Witter. Both sides of the business
reported record earnings, Scott, the chief financial officer, said.
At Lehman, which become an independent listed company when it
was spun off by American Express Co. in 1994, this year's second
quarter continued a string of strong growth that has seen its
annual profits rise to $647 million in 1997 from $113 million in
1994.
WASHINGTON Iraq is smuggling large volumes of oil into Turkey
in violation of U.N. sanctions, U.S. and Turkish officials say.
The officials say the Clinton administration has chosen to look
the other way, aware that the smuggling benefits Turkey, a crucial
ally in the American policy toward Iraq, and Kurds who deny the
Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein control over northern
Iraq.
Still, the region is replete with double-dealing and surprising
alliances, and administration officials acknowledge that the
Kurdish leader benefiting from the smuggling betrayed the United
States less than two years ago.
The operation involves thousands of trucks transporting millions
of tons of oil, diesel fuel and other refined products annually,
openly traversing roads that U.S. and allied warplanes fly over in
northern Iraq, officials acknowledge.
The smuggling conduit into Turkey is enriching Saddam's
government and family, these officials say, at a time when he is
chafing under U.N. restrictions on official oil exports, which have
been in place since the end of the Persian Gulf War eight years
ago.
Until the United Nations determines that the Iraqi government
has eliminated programs to develop weapons of mass destruction, it
has prohibited Iraq from exporting oil except through a limited
program to raise humanitarian relief money.
But the Clinton administration has decided not to try to stop
the smuggling even though the United States is trying to hold
together a coalition in support of economic sanctions against Iraq.
The smuggling, which has been going on for years, has become so
lucrative that Turkish truckers have welded external fuel-storage
tanks onto their trucks to cash in on the business.
Much larger tanker trucks are also involved, according to
Turkish and Kurdish officials. At times, the trucks involved in the
smuggling have been so numerous that they have clogged traffic. The
smuggling operation is primarily funneled across the Turkish border
at the Khabour Bridge near the southeastern Turkish town of Silopi,
according to U.S., Turkish and Kurdish officials.
One energy expert in the Turkish government who spoke on the
condition of anonymity estimated that Iraqi smuggling now accounts
for about 25 percent of the Turkish fuel market, making it a
significant concern to international oil companies trying to
compete in Turkey.
Turkish government officials, meanwhile, have been meeting to
discuss ways to control the smuggling, in conjunction with their
efforts to deregulate the country's fuel markets, Turkish officials
said.
Officially, the U.N. prohibits all Iraqi oil exports except
those that generate money for humanitarian aid in Iraq as well as
for Gulf war victims. In May, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan
approved Iraq's plan for distributing food and medicine purchased
under this program, paving the way for Iraq to increase the amount
of oil that Iraq could export under the plan from $2 billion to
$5.2 billion worth of oil over the next six months.
All other Iraqi oil exports are officially banned, but in
addition to the smuggling through Turkey and the Persian Gulf, Iraq
ships about 100,000 barrels of oil a day to Jordan. Jordan is
almost completely dependent on Iraqi oil, and the shipments to
Jordan have been informally accepted by the United Nations, U.S.
officials say.
Officials say the Clinton administration has never moved to curb
the smuggling, choosing instead to appease the Turks and the
Kurdish faction that controls the northern Iraqi territory and the
border crossing.
But the smuggling has clearly gone from being a minor loophole
in the embargo against Iraqi oil into a much more significant
source of income for Saddam and a well entrenched outlet for the
Iraqis.
With no American or allied effort to impede the traffic, between
50,000 and 60,000 barrels of Iraqi oil and fuel products a day are
now being smuggled along the Turkish route, Clinton administration
officials estimate.
Iraq also smuggles oil by water, to Iran, Dubai and other spots.
The Turkish and Persian Gulf routes smuggle roughly equal amounts
of oil and together account for up to 10 percent of Iraq's export
capacity, U.S. officials estimate.
U.S. warships, as part of a multinational force, have been
trying for several years to curb sea-borne smuggling, stopping some
barges and other vessels in international waters in the Persian
Gulf, administration officials said.
Earlier this year, Iran briefly curbed the Iraqi oil smuggling
trade along its waterways, but U.S. officials say the smuggling
through the Gulf route is now surging once again.
Administration officials say they believe that Saddam gets a
smaller cut of the profits from the Turkish operation than from the
Gulf operation. Kurdish leaders, Turkish trucking interests and
undoubtedly Turkish governmental officials along the border skim
off levies on the smuggling, U.S. officials say.
Administration officials say that Turkey has suffered so
severely as a result of international sanctions on Iraq that the
United States has decided to continue allowing the Turks to benefit
from Iraqi oil smuggling. In addition, administration officials
say, the smuggling benefits the Kurdistan Democratic Party of
Kurdish leader Masoud Barzani, which taxes the oil as it passes
through its territory.
Yet Kurdish leaders from the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan
complain that the Clinton administration's decision to allow
Barzani to benefit from the smuggling is enriching a Kurdish leader
who betrayed the United States less than two years ago.
Barzani, who was formerly on the CIA's payroll, double-crossed
the agency by inviting the Iraqi army into his territory in August
1996, crushing a U.S. covert action program that was based on
Kurdish support, according to U.S. intelligence officials.
Barzani's actions led to the scattering of thousands of Kurds
and other dissidents who had supported the U.S. effort to undermine
support for Saddam. About 6,000 Kurds were eventually provided
refuge in the United States after Barzani's betrayal.
Now, rival Kurdish leaders say that the smuggling business is
earning Barzani millions of dollars, while putting him directly
into business with Uday Hussein, Saddam's son. The rival Kurds say
that at least part of the Barzani group's revenues are paid as
kickbacks to Uday Hussein. Independent oil experts agree that Uday
Hussein appears to be in overall charge of smuggling operations. 
The department reported that the trade deficit for April
expanded to a new monthly high of $14.5 billion, well above the
$13.3 billion projected by many economists, and up sharply from
$13.2 billion in March.
The rise was partly accounted for by technical changes in the
way the government measures aircraft exports, and reflected the
swollen value of the dollar in relation to Asian currencies. But
the figures showed that the deepening economic slump through much
of Asia was drying up demand for many types of goods, costing U.S.
exporters orders in what had been one of their fastest-growing
markets.
Total exports in April fell by 2.5 percent, to $77.1 billion,
the lowest level in 14 months. Imports decreased eight-tenths of 1
percent, to $91.6 billion.
The drop in exports suggested that economic growth was slowing
from a robust pace earlier in the year. A slowdown would reduce the
risks of an increase in inflation, which many analysts think is the
main threat to sustained economic health. But it would also cut
into job creation and further bite into corporate profits, a
prospect that is already souring the partylike atmosphere on Wall
Street.
The United States' largest exporter, Boeing Co. of Seattle, said
Thursday that it expected a deepening recession in Asia to cost it
orders for 90 aircraft over the next five years. Although the
company said no Asian airlines had yet canceled any orders, Boeing
has already announced plans to slow production of its flagship 747
jumbo jet.
Farmers, manufacturers of industrial materials and automakers
are also affected particularly hard by the export crunch, the
Commerce Department said. Texas Instruments, the technology
company, said Thursday that it would cut 3,500 jobs worldwide 8
percent of its work force because of weak demand for
semiconductors from Asia and deep price cuts by Asian competitors
struggling to survive the downturns in their home markets.
Glassman said he expects growth to slow to 1.5 percent in the
second quarter from 4.8 percent in the first quarter, and to be
roughly flat in the second half of the year before rebounding in
1999.
Other analysts are less pessimistic, saying the economy is
likely to continue growing, albeit at a more moderate pace, through
the second half. And debate continues among economists about
whether Asia's effects alone will cool the domestic economy
sufficiently to avert the need for an inflation-fighting
interest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve Board.
But the trade figures underscored the stake the United States
has in helping to bring Asia's downward economic spiral under
control.
Asia's troubles have so far brought as many benefits as
drawbacks to the United States, including lower interest rates that
have helped fuel a housing boom and allowed many homeowners to save
money by refinancing their mortgages. But in the long run,
economists said, the nation needs financial stability and economic
growth abroad to sustain the vibrant domestic expansion that began
in 1991.
Fearful that a long slide in the value of the Japanese currency
could exacerbate Asia's problems and infect the rest of the world,
the Clinton administration joined with the Japanese government on
Wednesday to buy yen, a move that administration officials
acknowledged was only a temporary measure.
The White House has been pushing Japan to do more to revive its
own economy and help the rest of Asia. And the administration has
been pressing Congress to provide more financing for the
International Monetary Fund in case the financial instability
spreads.
The trade deficit has grown steadily throughout this year as
Japan slipped into recession and the economies of Indonesia,
Thailand, South Korea and other big markets spiraled downward.
The growth in the deficit has been pushed along in recent months
by the steep decline in the yen's value, reflecting the deep-rooted
financial and economic problems bedeviling Japan at a time when the
United States has been enjoying steady growth and low inflation.
The rise in the dollar relative to the yen makes American
products more expensive in Japan and makes Japanese products less
expensive in the United States. Although the trade deficit with
Japan narrowed in April, to $5.4 billion from $5.8 billion in
March, economists said they expect the deficit to increase in
coming months, reflecting the sharp runup in the dollar relative to
the yen between April and this week's intervention in the currency
markets.
The deficit with China expanded to $4.3 billion in April from
$3.8 billion a month earlier. President Clinton leaves next week on
a trip to China, and he is expected to press China to lower trade
barriers to improve its chances of joining the World Trade
Organization and help defuse political tensions with the United
States.
The cumulative deficit with the Pacific Rim nations alone for
the first four months of this year was $46.7 billion, a 38 percent
increase over the same period last year.
The Commerce Department also said Thursday that the nation's
current account deficit, a broader measure of trade performance,
expanded to $47.2 billion in the first quarter from $45 billion in
the fourth quarter of 1997.
ART ADV: Graphics and photos are being sent, as indicated below,
to NYT Graphics and Photos subscribers. Clients needing
retransmission or information, or non-subscribers seeking to
arrange individual purchase, should call (212) 556-4204. 
THEME-PARKS-RIDES (Undated) To entice repeat visits, amusement
parks spend millions of dollars on new thrill rides. This year,
according to Amusement Business, which tracks the $8 billion
industry, is a record one for roller coaster construction, with
nearly 80 being built worldwide.
INVEST-EDGAR (Undated) Many investors find SEC filings so
off-putting that they never spot the juicy stuff. Here are
shortcuts to use on EDGAR to get to the dirty lowdown, told through
specific examples. By Richard Korman.
INVEST-ROTH-IRA (Undated) How to get the biggest kick out of
your ROTH IRA? Buy the farm. By Virginia Munger Kahn.
EARN-HELP-DESKS (Undated) Help desks, the preserve of customer
service representatives, have to deal with the customer at his or
her most stressed. Turnover is a problem sometimes as high as 300
percent annually. How the best desks keep their people. By Claudia
H. Deutsch.
SPEND-TICKET-SWITCH (Undated) The rising costs of switching a
nonrefundable airline ticket. Not only do you have to pay $75, up
from $25 in recent years, but you may not even be able to get the
dates you want in crunchy peak seasons. Also, two other areas of
rising fees: pre-paid ticket and unassisted child travel. By Noelle
Knox. Graphic.
ABOUT-CARS-VOLVO (Undated) You see the reaction from people
again and again when driving Volvo's new C70 coupe. Instinctively,
they know the car is a Volvo; the rectangular grille with its
diagonal slash mark could belong to nothing else. But the lines are
sleek and clean, so the C70 genuinely looks like a car and not, as
Volvos have for ages, like the box the car came in. By James G.
Cobb.
CAR-SMART-CONVERTIBLE (Undated) Having developed some
eye-catching curves, Volvo is going topless. A convertible version
of the C70 goes on sale early next month, at a starting price
estimated at $44,000. By James G. Cobb.
FUNDS-WATCH (Undated) A weekly report on changes in mutual
funds comings and goings among managers, changes in fees and
openings and closings. By Carole Gould.
LONDON A consortium of American investors, including Microsoft
Corp.'s co-founder, Bill Gates, said Thursday that it had agreed to
acquire the British luxury hotel company Cliveden PLC for 42.8
million pounds, or $71.1 million.
The consortium consists of Destination Europe Ltd., which is
owned by two real estate investment firms, Lowe Enterprises and LF
Strategic Realty Investors, in addition to Cascade, the personal
investment company of Gates.
Cliveden is best known for the Cliveden Hotel in Berkshire, near
London, a stately home set on a 375-acre estate on the bank of the
Thames. It was built in the middle of the last century for the Duke
of Sutherland and became the home of the Astor family and the site
of glittering parties in the Edwardian era. The estate gained
notoriety in 1963 when Harold Macmillan's minister of war, John
Profumo, was found having an affair there with Christine Keeler, a
call girl.
The British hotel company also owns the Cliveden Town House near
Sloan Square in London and the Royal Crescent Hotel in Bath. The
company is also currently in the process of converting the former
headquarters of Scottish Equitable in Edinburgh into a luxury hotel
scheduled to open next spring.
The acquisition comes amid a flurry of investment this year by
American companies in Britain's hotel business. In April,
Blackstone Group paid 520 million pounds, and Patriot American
Hospitality bought Arcadian for 92 million pounds.
LF Strategic Realty Investors owns 65 percent of Destination
Europe USA, the holding company for Destination Europe Ltd.; Lowe
Enterprises owns 25 percent of the company, and Cascade holds 10
percent.
PARIS An American tour company said Thursday that 15,000 World
Cup tickets were stolen from its Paris office Thursday morning, the
latest twist in the uproar over the sale of tickets for the
monthlong tournament.
Gillian Pattison, a spokeswoman for Prime Sports International,
said burglars broke into the company's offices early Thursday,
smashed a safe, grabbed cash worth over $560,000 and made off with
tickets for most of the remaining matches, including the final in
St.-Denis on July 12.
Police confirmed that the robbery had taken place. But it was
not clear why the company, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., had so
much cash or so many tickets in its office.
The theft came as complaints continued to pour in from thousands
of fans, including large Belgian, Brazilian and Japanese
contingents, who say tour operators have promised them tickets that
have not been delivered.
At least one Paris hotel had to call police to calm an irate
crowd of Brazilians whose promised tickets for the opening match 10
days ago had not appeared.
Police and prosecutors have opened investigations into possible
fraud that have already led to the arrest of two officials linked
to ISL Worldwide, the official marketing agency of the
international soccer federation, FIFA, which organizes the World
Cup.
The World Cup, held every four years, has turned into an
enormous business, with FIFA reaping large payments from the sale
of television rights and sponsoring contracts.
As the fever to get tickets for games has mounted, prices for
tickets have soared, with some reports suggesting that tickets for
the final on July 12 may fetch over $15,000 each. There appear to
be fortunes to be made on the black market, and advertisements have
begun to appear daily in newspapers from people seeking tickets.
To date, police and judicial investigations here have focused on
ISL France, the French subsidiary of ISL Worldwide, which is based
in Switzerland. The general director of the subsidiary, Marc
Loison, and a consultant, Gilles Favard, have both been detained by
police for questioning on the possible fraudulent sale of tickets.
The arrests followed a lawsuit filed by a French lawyer, Francis
Debacker, representing four Japanese tour operators who said they
had paid for 15,000 tickets that were promised by Favard but never
delivered. In theory, ISL France is supposed to market the World
Cup but not sell any tickets.
The sale of tickets was directed by France's central organizing
committee for the World Cup, which was further embarrassed Thursday
by reports that a confidential phone number leaked to a few
privileged fans allowed them to buy huge blocks of seats when
170,000 tickets were put up for sale on a first-come, first-served
basis on April 22.
Bruno Travade, a spokesman for the organizing committee, said
the committee had asked France Telecom, the country's main
telephone company, to conduct an investigation into the existence
of a secret number and would file charges if necessary.
Official phone lines were constantly busy when the tickets went
on sale, and newspapers here were full of calculations from
mathematicians putting the odds of getting through at one in
several million.
As the ticket scandal raged, police moved to stop trouble on
another front. The sale of alcohol around a Paris stadium, the Parc
des Princes, was banned during matches and for several hours before
and after them. During the Germany-U.S. game on Monday, a number of
German fans outside the stadium were arrested after minor clashes
with police.
Alcohol sales were also banned in the vicinity of five large
video screens erected in the capital to show the games.
PORTAGE, Ind. Three people were killed and five others injured
Thursday morning when a Chicago-bound commuter train struck a
tractor-trailer truck that had been stuck at a crossing.
According to investigators, the truck, which was delivering
three 40,000-pound steel coils, had crossed the commuter tracks as
it entered a steel mill in Portage, 30 miles southeast of Chicago.
However, a freight train running on tracks parallel to the South
Shore Railroad train had tripped its crossing gates and trapped the
tail end of the double-wide truck between the two tracks.
While it was stopped at the crossing waiting for the freight
train to clear, authorities said, the commuter train approached and
slammed into the overlapping trailer, dragging it close to 400
feet. The impact launched one of the steel coils into the front car
of the train, killing three of the passengers, William McCombs of
Laporte, Ind., Gary Berndt of Michigan City, ind., and Glenn Walker
of Baroda, Mich., an off-duty employee of the railroad. The five
other passengers received minor injuries. The truck driver was not
seriously hurt.
The two-car train, which originated in Michigan City, Ind., was
the first of 10 morning trains carrying people to Chicago. The
collision occurred at 4:35 a.m., stopping service on the line that
shuttles between South Bend, Ind., and Chicago.
According to Dave Eggers, a trooper with the Indiana State
Police, the driver of the truck, Keith Lintz of Niles, Mich., was
cited for several violations. The most serious of the citations was
an overweight violation, since Lintz did not have the proper permit
required to carry such a heavy load.
Investigators for the National Transportation Safety Board were
on the scene leading the investigation. Michael Martino, the
investigator in charge, said they planned to recreate the crash
Saturday, by which time they would have a better idea of what
happened.
(Train passengers were also injured in two other collisions
Thursday. In Durham, N.C., an Amtrak train heading for New York
with about 200 on board hit a tractor-trailer at a downtown
crossing, critically injuring the truck driver and slightly
injuring two in the train crew. The 18-wheel tractor-trailer
wrapped around the front of the locomotive and briefly caught fire.
The locomotive derailed, though it remained upright.
In Boston, two subway trains collided at one of the city's
busiest stations during lunch hour. Transportation officials say at
least 10 people were hurt, but none of the injuries were
life-threatening. One Green Line train slammed into the back of
another at the Government Center station, witnesses said.)
In 1993, two South Shore trains collided in Gary, Ind., killing
seven and injuring more than 60. In that accident, federal
authorities said, an engineer had disregarded a signal to stop.
WASHINGTON As a congressman and later as the Clinton
administration's chief delegate to the United Nations, Bill
Richardson displayed a flair for missions that required a sense of
derring-do, like the time he persuaded officials in Pyongyang to
release an American who stole into North Korea to convert all its
citizens to Christianity.
Richardson's model as free-form diplomatic troubleshooter has
been as much Indiana Jones as Henry Kissinger as he has traveled to
odd and sometimes fearsome parts of the world, including Sudan,
Iraq, Serbia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Myanmar, in addition to
North Korea. On many of those missions he has often been successful
in winning the release of hostages from governments and warlords
when traditional diplomacy had failed to do so.
In choosing Richardson to be his new energy secretary, President
Clinton has given him an assignment which traditionally carries far
less glamour and less opportunity for a high public profile. But no
one in the capital expects Richardson to recede into relative
obscurity.
But even as people expect him to be confirmed by the Senate, no
one expects that process to occur without its own drama. As U.N.
ambassador, Richardson played an intriguing, perhaps significant,
role in the Monica Lewinsky story and he would likely be questioned
about it at any confirmation hearing.
Ms. Lewinsky is the former White House intern who is at the
center of the current investigation by Whitewater prosecutor
Kenneth Starr, of Clinton. Starr is investigating whether the
president had an intimate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, lied
about it under oath and encouraged her to conceal it as well.
When Ms. Lewinsky was leaving a job at the public affairs office
at the Pentagon last fall, Richardson met with her in his official
suite at the Watergate apartments to discuss a possible job for her
the U.S. mission at the United Nations. He offered her a job which
she declined in favor of a corporate post in New York.
Investigators are trying to find out if the job offer from
Richardson was part of an inducement for Ms. Lewinsky not to say
anything damaging about the president.
William Blaine Richardson was born in Pasadena, Calif., on Nov.
15, 1947, and graduated from the Middlesex School and Tufts
University, both in Massachusetts. As a young man, he was
considered a major-league pitching prospect. He and his wife,
Barbara, who have no children, live in the Waldorf-Astoria
apartment provided for U.N. ambassadors.
In one of his most celebrated missions, Richardson successfully
negotiated the release of three Westerners including a U.S. pilot
in the middle of the Sudanese desert in December 1996.
He persuaded the rebel leaders to drop their demand for millions
of dollars in exchange for tons of food along with jeeps and
radios.
As Washington's U.N. ambassador, Richardson compiled what
diplomats have viewed as an impressive list of achievements,
including persuading the new leader of Congo, formerly Zaire, to
allow an investigation of human rights abuses and as a principal
advocate of a tough U.S. policy towards Iraq.
He recently has been criticized by some diplomats for failing to
perceive, during a visit to New Delhi, India's intentions to engage
in nuclear testing.
In May, Richardson became the first U.S. Cabinet official to
visit Afghanistan in more than two decades and obtained an
agreement from the warring factions to begin peace talks, and he
was Clinton's choice to try to ease the dying leader of Zaire,
Mobutu Sese Seko, out of office.
Richardson was regarded warmly at the United Nations, especially
among the diplomats of the developing world who are often ignored
by U.S. officials, for his backslapping, informal nature and his
political skills. He made much of his part-Hispanic background and
liked socializing with delegates.
NEW YORK Just when it looked as if the proposed merger between
the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market had won the
dissidents over, another critic has popped up. And this one is
bringing the specter of antitrust into the merger.
The vote on the deal by American Stock Exchange seat-holders,
scheduled for next Thursday, appeared to be in the bag earlier this
week. That was when Paul Liang, one of the exchange's largest
seat-holders and biggest critics of the deal, sold his 18 seats to
a big specialist firm, Spear, Leeds Kellogg. A vote of no by
Liang could have jeopardized the two-thirds majority needed to
approve the deal.
But on Thursday, a new critic of the combination emerged.
Patrick Healy, president of the Issuer Network in Chevy Chase, Md.,
a consulting firm that advises public companies on where they
should list their company's shares for trading, had supported the
merger initially. But he withdrew his support after Nasdaq
officials refused to address corporate discontent over the stock
market's decision to increase listing fees by an average of 56
percent in January.
He now worries that a combination of the two exchanges may lead,
down the road, to unfairly high fees for companies that list their
shares for trading on either the Nasdaq or the American Stock
Exchange. He has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice to review
the merger with this anti-competitive issue in mind.
How much a company pays each year to list and trade its stock on
an exchange has become more of an issue as the United States' stock
and option exchanges consolidate.
In addition to the pending American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
merger, just last week the American Stock Exchange and the
Philadelphia Option Exchange agreed in principle to merge. With
fewer listing alternatives available to companies, the opportunity
to jack up issuer prices increases.
Issuer or listing fees typically include a hefty initial charge
when a company lists its shares, an annual fee and additional
charges if a company issues new shares of stock. Exchanges usually
base their fees on how many shares a company has outstanding.
Regardless of a company's size, fees are highest on the New York
Stock Exchange and lowest on the American Stock Exchange.
On the Big Board, for instance, a company with 5 million to 6
million shares outstanding would pay an annual charge of at least
$16,170. On the American Stock Exchange, it would pay $9,000. On
Nasdaq, it would pay $12,000, up 54 percent from the $7,750 charged
last year.
Although this may seem like pocket change, these fees can be a
significant cost of doing business for the small concerns that have
made Nasdaq their home because they do not meet the Big Board's
more stringent listing requirements or do not want to pay its high
fees.
And the annual fees come on top of Nasdaq's original listing
fees of almost $60,000 for a firm of that size. Original listing
charges for such a firm would be as much as $88,100 on the Big
Board and $27,500 on the American Stock Exchange.
Not surprisingly, the bigger the exchange, the more important
listing fees are to its overall financial picture. Last year, for
example, 41 percent of the New York Stock Exchange's revenues came
from listing fees: $261 million in total.
Nasdaq's issuer fees totaled $113 million in 1997, 18 percent of
its revenues. The American Stock Exchange took in $16 million in
such fees, 8 percent of its total revenues.
But companies that list their shares on Nasdaq have experienced
the heftiest increase in fees. According to a study that Healy
conducted for his clients, Nasdaq's listing fees increased by
almost 500 percent from 1990 through 1997.
Only a small portion of the increase can be attributed to more
listing companies: The number of issuers rose only 34 percent
during the period. Most of the growth in issuer revenues came from
price increases.
Nasdaq said that it had to increase its issuer fees to cover new
information services including its World Wide Web site and online
services developed for issuers and investors. The fee increase
also went toward investment in technology for Nasdaq's market
surveillance system.
Because its fees remain below those on the New York Stock
Exchange, Nasdaq says its charges are reasonable. But comparisons
with the Big Board are irrelevant to most of its issuers because
most do not meet the New York Stock Exchange's listing requirements
and therefore could not list their shares there.
Nasdaq sent two letters to its issuing companies about the
coming fee increases. And as is always the case with such a
proposed fee increase, the SEC asked for public comment on it. But
companies were asked only in the Federal Register for comment, and
many remained in the dark. When companies got their bills from
Nasdaq in February, some were surprised by the higher fees.
Hardest hit were small companies, with 1 million to 10 million
shares outstanding. They saw their charges jump 33 percent to 104
percent. Which means that if the American Stock Exchange-Nasdaq
merger goes through, one unintended consequence may be a surge of
companies moving their listings to the American Stock Exchange.
That is, if the exchange keeps its fees low.
WASHINGTON A study of American cities by the Clinton
administration says the strong national economy has left most of
them in their best financial shape in decades.
The largest part of the request comes from the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, which is seeking $1.8 billion in new
spending beyond the appropriation of $24 billion it has received in
each of the last five years.
While Congress is projecting a budget surplus of as much as $100
billion for 1999, it will not be easy for the administration to get
additional money for new programs. Among other reasons, Republicans
in both houses are eager to use some of the surplus to cut taxes.
The report, which is to be presented by Cuomo this weekend at
the U.S. Conference of Mayors annual convention in Reno, Nev.,
provides ample evidence that the country's economic growth in
recent years has dramatically improved conditions in cities of all
size around the country.
Among the major findings are a 10.4 percent increase in
employment in cities over the last five years, and a 34 percent
increase in new low-skilled jobs from 1994 to 1995, compared with a
13 percent increase from 1991 to 1994.
But those gains pale beside job growth in suburban areas, the
report says, a disparity that triggers a domino effect of adverse
consequences for cities. As urban problems like crime and poor
schools steadily persuade many middle-class residents to leave for
the suburbs, commercial investment follows, draining cities of
their job base and tax base.
The report contends that the people who are hurt most are the
lowest-wage earners, who have fewer job opportunities and, often,
no practical means of transportation to reach jobs in the suburbs.
The report contends that over the next five years, their ranks will
increase by 353,000 as current welfare recipients join the search
for work.
Citing a recent study of 74 urban areas by the conference of
mayors, the administration's report says that employers are likely
to find at least two applicants for the same low-paying job over
the next five years, and some cities, like Cleveland; Newark, N.J.,
and Providence, R.I., are projecting 10 or more more.
The administration's budget request seeks to aid those people
with a holistic economic approach, using urban programs that would
stimulate job growth, improve public schools and educational
programs and create 100,000 new vouchers for low-income city
residents so they can move closer to higher-paying jobs.
 The housing department is seeking $400 million for a new
Community Empowerment Fund, which would be used to leverage $2
billion in private-sector loans to create 280,000 jobs.
 The department is also requesting $283 milion in new
low-income housing vouchers to make it easier for 50,000 welfare
recipients to find a job.
 The Department of Education wants $1.5 billion over five years
to create Education Opportunity Zones in high poverty areas and
$7.3 billion over the same period to hire new teachers to reduce
the class size in grades 1 through 3.
SAN FRANCISCO As Tiger Woods attempted once again to grasp
that greatness that flashed across Augusta National 14 months ago,
the result was a peculiar mix Woods's demeanor was consistent,
even if his golf was far from it.
All was well, though. Woods seemed well on his way to a solid
round and a high rung on the leaderboard. And perhaps he might have
been well on his way toward winning his second major, a feat few in
golf thought would require a year-and-thensome, as now is the case,
since his epic triumph in the 1997 Masters.
Woods reached the ninth green in regulation two and was faced
with a 25-footer for birdie. But his round was to turn completely
here as Woods needed four putts to get off the green and an ungodly
three to traverse the final 2 feet. From that green onward, Woods
would play The Olympic Club in a far-from-great 6 over par.
Tiger used his driver on only three holes the first, 11th, and
17th but when he pulled his driver out on the 11th, he brought
out more than a few gasps from the crowd, driving the ball 290
yards down the fairway. Yet he could come home only with a par as
the greens mastered Woods this day instead of Woods mastering
Olympic, as had been expected by some because he played the
Lakeside Course many times as an undergraduate at nearby Stanford.
Back then, though, Woods could be a carefree college student.
Back then, Woods had not yet flashed across the sky with a stunning
and overwhelming win at the '97 Masters. Back then, Woods was
carrying merely the potential of greatness on his shoulders, not
the weight of greatness on demand.
But greatness cannot be demanded. On the 12th hole, a 416-yard
par 4, Woods found the right bunker and could not get up and down.
Bogey. On the next hole, a par 3, Woods three-putted from 24 feet
for another bogey, bogeys and worse being his nemesis in the majors
since the 1997 Masters. Woods has gone 26 strokes over par on 11
holes at various junctures of the 1997 US and British Opens, the
'97 PGA, and now the 1998 US Open.
The 16th, of course, is made for Tiger, a 609-yard killer that
even Woods needed a 2-iron, 2-iron, and 9-iron to reach in
regulation three. But there was Woods's ball, 24 feet above the cup
for a birdie bid to begin his creep back to competitiveness. Tiger yet again needed three strokes on the green to find the hole.
Woods hit 11 of a possible 14 fairways decent enough, given
the customary Open rough but he missed five of 18 greens in
regulation. And the putting? Not good, not at all, Woods needing 33
to find the 18 holes.
 D on Radke , former president of a Wisconsin nudist club that
holds an annual summer car show, discusses in the latest issue of
Esquire how a nudist avoids sticking to the car seat.
 The nonprofit Peaceful Streets is holding a Father's Day Gun
Bake in Washington Square from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in which four
assault rifles will be pounded by blacksmiths into works of art,
then placed on doors to be painted by volunteers into a community
mural. This action-packed event also includes drumming, a favored
Father's Day activity for non-golfers.
 American Greetings says that 30 percent of its Father's Day
cards are humorous, but only 18 percent of Mother's Day cards crack
jokes. Elsewhere on the trail of national trends, Country Home
magazine notes that the 10 most searched-for items on the Internet
Antique Shop Mall are: Depression glass, Roseville pottery,
carnival glass, Limoges china, Beanie babies (you knew they would
sneak in there, didn't you?), dolls, cookie jars, McCoy pottery,
lamps and clocks.
 A judge in Sicily has concluded that antiquities bought by Maurice Tempelsman the diamond trader who was Jackie O 's
boyfriend in 1980 were looted from an archaeological dig in
Sicily.
 D on Radke , former president of a Wisconsin nudist club that
holds an annual summer car show, discusses in the latest issue of
Esquire how a nudist avoids sticking to the car seat.
 The nonprofit Peaceful Streets is holding a Father's Day Gun
Bake in Washington Square from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in which four
assault rifles will be pounded by blacksmiths into works of art,
then placed on doors to be painted by volunteers into a community
mural. This action-packed event also includes drumming, a favored
Father's Day activity for non-golfers.
 American Greetings says that 30 percent of its Father's Day
cards are humorous, but only 18 percent of Mother's Day cards crack
jokes. Elsewhere on the trail of national trends, Country Home
magazine notes that the 10 most searched-for items on the Internet
Antique Shop Mall are: Depression glass, Roseville pottery,
carnival glass, Limoges china, Beanie babies (you knew they would
sneak in there, didn't you?), dolls, cookie jars, McCoy pottery,
lamps and clocks.
 A judge in Sicily has concluded that antiquities bought by Maurice Tempelsman the diamond trader who was Jackie O 's
boyfriend in 1980 were looted from an archaeological dig in
Sicily.
Joe Carter was standing behind home plate at Baltimore's Camden
Yards last month, sermonizing about his bat. Carter, nearly
reverential, told how it was more durable, how it allowed him to
whip through the strike zone faster and how other major-leaguers
will ultimately want one.
Carter, bat evangelist as well as a member of the Orioles, at
last persuaded Pat Borders of the Cleveland Indians formerly his
teammate in Toronto to take a swing. Borders swung the bat once,
twice, three times and then nodded his acceptance. Carter cackled
with knowing approval, then shared his wisdom.
What is the secret? Why does Carter, a potential Hall of Famer
who has knocked in at least 100 runs in 11 of his 16 seasons, adore
a bat that he did not begin using until last season while with the
Blue Jays, a bat he sneaked into at least one game in 1997 before
it was officially approved by major-league baseball?
Carter is the most vocal of the two dozen major-league clients
of Sam Holman, a waggish 53-year-old from Ottawa who responded to a
bar challenge from a baseball scout two years ago by carving a bat
from rock maple wood, not the northern ash wood from which
virtually all bats are made.
So Holman formed Original Maple Bat Corp. and has devoted the
last two years to making maple bats and trying to gain a slice of a
market dominated by Hillerich Bradsby, a 115-year-old Louisville,
Ky., company that provides Louisville Sluggers to almost 70 percent
of major-league players. Trying to break into a sport steeped in
tradition and superstition, Holman has a daunting task.
Still, Holman tells players that maple bats, denser and
stronger, can last a full month. Ash bats last from a day to a
week, rarely survive a month and must be discarded anyway because
the barrels become dented. The maple bats are sleeker because they
have tighter grains, a smoother finish and a thinner barrel,
usually measuring 2\ inches instead of 2{.
Although thinner barrels can frighten hitters less bat surface
with which to make contact Holman stressed that bat speed will
increase. Holman, who calls his products Sam Bats, said that they
traveled through the strike zone faster because they were lighter,
and that contact with a ball was made on a harder surface.
Holman is one of about 20 smaller manufacturers who provide bats
for players, but he is the only one using maple. Bill Williams, a
spokesman for HB, said the company has experimented with all types
of wood and even made some maple bats for Little Leaguers in the
early 1990s, but has no plans to switch from ash. Ash, he said, is
the best for duplicating the thin handles and thick barrels most
major-leaguers became accustomed to through years of using aluminum
bats in Little League, high school and college.
Nonetheless, why did it take decades for someone to consistently
use maple to make bats? It is not Kryptonite, after all.
Carter, who was batting .266 with nine home runs and 26 runs
batted in going into last night's game, is Holman's most loyal
client on a gradually growing list that includes Toronto's Jose
Canseco, Baltimore's Mike Bordick and Houston's Brad Ausmus. Holman
has filled orders for Colorado's Larry Walker and Houston's Craig
Biggio and Jeff Bagwell, and dozens of other players have sampled
the maple bats but have been hesitant to switch.
After Bill MacKenzie, a friend of Holman's who scouts for the
Colorado Rockies, complained about how many broken bats he had seen
in spring training in 1996, Holman took it as a challenge. He
searched for stronger wood and wound up with maple, which is so
sturdy that it is used to build airplane propellers. The first
maple bat was made out of a piece of railing from Holman's home and
was given to an 11-year-old named Adam Healy. The boy slept with it
and homered in his next game.
Holman purchased a rare Italian lathe that was being used to
make ax handles, turned his garage into a workshop and began
testing and marketing Sam Bats.
Bill Murray, baseball's director of operations, said it does not
approve new bat makers once a season starts because umpires are
given a list of sanctioned equipment companies and it would be
chaotic to continually add names. Consequently, it took more than a
year for Sam Bats to receive approval.
But making a profit is not. Holman, who answers his own
telephone and eats lunch while his pregnant cat, Marbles, meows in
the former garage, is essentially a one-man company. Hillerich Bradsby dwarfs the competition by producing almost a million bats
per year, which are sold to pro players at $30.50 a bat. Teams buy
the bats, and players who have contracts with HB receive a nominal
fee. Holman has made about 450 bats this year at a cost of $43
each, up from 400 last year, but he is $40,000 in debt after
investing $100,000.
That presents another thorny problem. Because Holman makes every
bat by hand, cutting the wood, shaping it and sanding it, no two
bats are exactly alike. He tries to adhere to the specific
measurements ordered by each player and was working on Canseco's on
a recent weekend, but he cannot duplicate each bat, and that has
irritated some players.
Holman hopes to survive, then thrive, and he studies games
mostly to see who is using Sam Bats. He would love to persuade
Little League, high school and college teams to switch from
aluminum to maple.
WASHINGTON Indonesia's new president, B.J. Habibie, has
appointed as a senior military adviser a retired army general who
was ordered by a U.S. court to pay millions of dollars in damages
for his involvement in a 1991 massacre in which 270 people were
estimated to have been killed.
The appointment of the retired officer, Lt. Gen. Sintong
Panjaitan, could result in early strains in the relationship
between the United States and Habibie, who came to office last
month with promises of an improvement in Indonesia's human rights
record and in its ties with Washington.
Panjaitan oversaw troops who carried out the November 1991
massacre in East Timor, the former Portuguese colony that was
invaded by Indonesia in the 1970s and annexed despite international
protests.
The soldiers opened fire on demonstrators who had gathered at a
graveyard for the funeral of a young East Timorese man who had been
killed by soldiers two weeks earlier.
In 1994 Panjaitan was ordered by a U.S. District Court judge in
Boston to pay $14 million in damages to the mother of a 20-year-old
New Zealand man who was among those killed. The suit was filed in
Boston by human rights activists after Panjaitan moved there for
studies at Boston University.
The general, who was removed from his military post after the
massacre, never appeared in court to answer the charges and
returned home to Indonesia in 1992 to join the staff of Habibie,
who was then technology minister.
Habibie, the former vice president, became president after the
resignation of President Suharto, who was forced from power in a
popular uprising against his 32 years of often brutal authoritarian
rule in Indonesia, the world's fourth-most-populous nation.
Since taking over this spring, Habibie has promised a crackdown
on human-rights abuses by the Indonesian military and has hinted
that he may be willing to grant some degree of autonomy to East
Timor. Last week he freed 12 political prisoners associated with
the independence movement on East Timor.
The Boston lawsuit against the general was brought on behalf of
the mother of Kamal Bamadhaj, a university student from New Zealand
who was traveling through East Timor and was killed by Indonesian
soldiers when he became caught up in the graveyard demonstration.
Video of the massacre was smuggled out of Indonesia and showed
soldiers opening fire on unarmed demonstrators without provocation.
ATLANTA -- It used to be that the only numbers people routinely
checked for health were the ones on their bathroom scales.
But researchers are re-evaluating their recommendations on such
topics as weight, blood pressure, cholesterol, exercise and diet to
determine what really leads to healthy living. And after grinding
through the statistics, they've reached at least one conclusion:
Guidelines by the numbers are not guarantees that someone will
dodge an early death.
Yet, in the past decade, patients have become increasingly
interested in living life by the numbers. They want to know what
their blood pressure or blood sugar rates are. They weigh their
food and calculate their body fat.
An explosion of new data has resulted in some recent changes in
the benchmarks of good health causing confusion and frustration
for some. This month, the National Institutes of Health officially
deemed many of us still too fat to be in good health. At the same
time, a new study suggested blood pressure levels of 140/90 long
considered the target range are still too high, and people should
be getting to 120/80.
What's behind the changing numbers is a growing sophistication
in preventive health strategies. And in many cases, what once was
viewed as medical gospel is being cast aside or challenged by new
medical knowledge. For example:
Dietitians are re-evaluating the role of fat in the diet. After
a decade of recommending low-fat diets, most dietitians now believe
fat is critical in maintaining blood sugars. Instead, attention has
been turned toward whether people consume too many carbohydrates
and get too little exercise.
Most doctors still believe that a normal cholesterol level
should be below 200, but a growing number of heart doctors and
alternative medicine specialists believe the number should be below
150.
Some exercise experts believe that what matters is not what you
weigh on the scale, but how fit you are. And they are challenging
the movement to get people to lose weight. It is inactivity, not
pounds, that leads to sickness and early death.
One reason for the increasing focus on health-related number
guidelines is that more Americans are taking charge of their health
and looking for ways to improve their diets and live healthier,
more active lifestyles.
Richard and Astrid Jackson of Druid Hills, both in their 60s,
think they can have an impact on their health.
That belief is also driving changes in the medical marketplace.
Managed care, the health trend du jour, is built on the philosophy
that the best way to save health care dollars is to keep people
healthy through disease prevention. Offering everything from cancer
screenings at malls to well-baby checkups to reminder cards for eye
exams to diabetics, managed care at its best has pushed preventive
care to the forefront.
But as the field and health guidelines change, how reliable
are the numbers, graphs and charts we study? And which guidelines
are the most important to follow?
Researchers and physicians from all walks of life and
philosophies tout the value of regular exercise at least 20
minutes a day for improved cardiac function and flexibility.
And the body mass index a ratio of height and weight is only
useful as a general tool for the average population; it does not
indicate any kind of health status for those who either are thin,
but are inactive or for serious athletes. Better indicators are the
waist-to-thigh ratio or body fat content measurements, which gauge
a person's fat and fitness levels.
The American Council on Exercise points out, for example, that
Shaquille O'Neal of the Los Angeles Lakers, home-run hitter Mark
McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals and Detroit Lions running back
Barry Sanders would all be deemed overweight or obese by the body
mass index which fails to distinguish between muscle and fat.
Experts also say most of the guidelines are merely cutoff points
defining the line between someone being healthy and someone
starting to show signs of chronic illness.
Individuals, therefore, need to monitor their own health and
work with their doctors to determine their own personal norms in
terms of cholesterol, weight and other factors.
Carol Conley, 77, has exercised all her life. And although her
blood pressure has recently registered higher than normal, she is
still diligent in swimming at the YWCA three times a week and doing
at least 20 minutes of stretching each day.
For her, it's a regimen that works on a personal level, and it's
also right in line with what the experts advise.
Q: How much of the overall conspiracy was mapped out when you
started and how much has been flying by the seat of your pants?
A: It's a combination. I had a rough idea where we were going,
but to tell you the truth, I discover new things all the time to
add in. By choice, I didn't want to create a bible so that I could
find my way through the process. It's like Lewis and Clark. I know
the direction I'm going, but I don't quite know what I'm going to
encounter on the way.
A: It was considered and calculated. You want to make it a great
movie experience for anyone who doesn't watch television. I think
you can completely enjoy the movie without knowing anything.
Q: Die-hard fans sometimes get turned off when you get really
murky. Do you just like to mess with people's minds?
A: I do. I always think you'd be much more irritated if I made
it simplistic than if I made it complex. It's a risky run.
A: I don't know for sure. I see it going at least seven years
(next season will be No. 6), and anything on top of that will be
gravy. I'd like to see the TV series become a movie series. It all
depends on the success of this movie.
Q: What will those last episodes have to be like to satisfy the
hard-core fans?
A: I'm excited about the idea that I'll have a place to go. What
I'll end up getting to do is set up the next movie by what I do in
those TV shows.
Q: You've tried to keep everything secret, so what's with the
hidden track at the end of the CD? (At the end of the movie
soundtrack, Carter talks for a few minutes about the conspiracy.)
A: It really tells you what you've seen in the series. It
doesn't tell you anything that you see in the movie. I thought it
was an opportunity to give something a little special to people who
were paying attention.
A: Sometimes I wonder. The show has been a miracle in many ways.
So many things have gone right that could have gone wrong. I think
its timing was perfect. The advances in science we are conducting
right now make it possible. Imagine trying to do this show without
cell phones.
Q: Do you get a fiendish glee out of all the blind alleys that
fans pursue on the Internet?
A:Absolutely. It's so weird to me to have created something that
has spawned so much speculation, so much talk. It just blows my
mind when I go on the Internet and see people chatting.
A: It's best kept a secret. You write things down, they tend to
get stale, like bread. Ideas should be kept fresh in your head and
never let out until the point you're ready to use them. If you tell
too many people, it dissipates the energy. And no one can steal
them if they're in your head.
In a landmark sexual harassment case, a Massachusetts man has
won more than $800,000 from the Norton Company, where he claims he
was harassed on the job by another man for 3 1/2 years.
The case the first jury verdict on same-sex harassment in
Massachusetts comes on the heels of a US Supreme Court ruling in
March that federal law prohibiting gender bias applies to same-sex
harassment.
Dottie Wackerman, vice president of communications for Norton,
would not comment on details of the case.
Wackerman said Norton has filed post-trial motions claiming the
evidence did not support the verdict and aiming to reduce the
judgment. Depending on the outcome of those motions, she said, an
appeal may be filed.
Eight women and four men in May awarded $843,313 in damages and
interest, plus undetermined legal fees which could put the
settlement close to $1 million.
The harassment, he claimed, began with an unwelcome advance
outside the workplace. A few days later, Trafecante told him he
loved him and wanted to have sex with him, according to court
papers.
The harassment increased with time. Trafecante allegedly began
following him into the men's room, made sexual gestures in the
company gym, and once grabbed his genitals, Belanger claimed.
After Trafecante was suspended in 1994, Belanger was admitted to
the psychiatric ward at Memorial Hospital in Worcester for a week,
and did not return to work that summer.
Fate intervenes when the neighboring Huns invade. The emperor
(Pat Morita) decrees that every family must send one male to the
country's defense. Mulan's father, a war hero, is willing but
hardly able. He's elderly and infirm. So she pulls a National
Velvet cuts her hair, dresses like a guy and reports for duty.
But now she's in double jeopardy. Not only could she be killed,
but if her disguise is discovered, the law mandates that she be
executed by her commanding officer, who just happens to be an
inviting young hunk named Shang (B.D. Wong/Donny Osmond).
Good thing her ancestral spirits have sent along some
protection. Well, not protection so much as a disgraced little red
dragon named Mushu (Eddie Murphy), trying to prove himself worthy
of said spirits.
Writer-director-star Christopher Scott Cherot's feature debut
manages to subvert those expectations, but for the most part is low
on originality. It mainly proves that African-American filmmakers
are just as proficient at aimless romantic navel-gazing as their
white colleagues.
A stylish name-dropper, Havilland mentions parties with Eddie
Murphy and Quentin Tarantino. She's just broken up with a rising
pop musician (Hill Harper) who makes other women swoon.
Lee's life, in contrast, is far from glam. A writer whose latest
book deal has fallen through, he lives in friends' apartments and
scrapes by as a teacher's assistant at New York University.
Down in D.C., in a house that proves to be the movie's
claustrophobic primary location, we meet Hav's arch friend Caroline
(Tammi Katherine Jones) and sister Leigh (Robbine Lee).
Cherot is a likable performer, but he doesn't have the movie
star wattage or sly charm his role needs. Maxwell can't do much
with her character, written as a chilly and sour woman.
Don't expect any mention of Atlanta or any of the Georgia
characters in this excerpt, however. They won't appear until
October, when the next two chapters are published in Rolling Stone
and Men's Journal.
Conrad, a young father with two children, is working the
$14-an-hour job in hopes of buying a condo. But he soon learns his
future at Croker Global Foods Warehouse is as precarious as the
footing on the ice-patched floor.
As Croker's financial woes intensify, Atlanta is thrust into a
racial crisis when Fareek Fanon, a young man who scratched his way
out of the slums to become a star college football player, is
accused of raping an Atlanta blue blood's daughter.
At this point in his life, however, Wilde (Stephen Frye) is
still very much in the closet even to himself. What many people
probably don't know, and what this movie manages to convey in its
Cliffs Notes way, is that he tried Victorian conformity. He marries
and has two children. But one night while his wife (Jennifer Ehle)
is upstairs in the nursery, a houseguest (Michael Sheen) introduces
Oscar to his true sexual inclination.
Disaster strikes when Oscar falls hard for handsome, heartless
Lord Alfred Douglas (Jude Law), a petulant brat with a title and a
tyrannical father, the Marquess of Queensberry (Tom Wilkinson).
Oscar's toxic infatuation leads to his becoming a pawn in a
poisonous struggle between a nasty son and a nastier father. The
result? Victorian England's trial of the century.
WASHINGTON Millions of people have left the welfare rolls
since Congress overhauled the federal program two years ago, but
what happened to them has been a puzzle for policy-makers. Now, the
most comprehensive study of the new system says more and more are
going to work.
The General Accounting Office, a nonpartisan arm of Congress,
said Thursday that there had been sharp increases in the proportion
of welfare recipients being placed in jobs.
The findings address one of the biggest questions about social
welfare policy in America. Officials have expressed many opinions,
but until now had only sketchy, incomplete information about what
happened to the people leaving welfare.
Since President Clinton took office, the number of people on
welfare has fallen 37 percent, to 8.9 million in March 1998 from
14.1 million in January 1993. The number has dropped 27 percent
since August 1996, when Clinton signed a bill ending the federal
guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children.
Texas had a slight decline in the proportion of welfare
recipients who found jobs. Data from Connecticut, while not exactly
comparable, showed a substantial increase in the number of families
leaving welfare because of increased earnings.
The General Accounting Office reported that 17 percent of
Maryland's welfare recipients were placed in jobs in 1997, up from
4 percent in 1995. In Louisiana, the proportion rose to 17 percent,
from 6 percent, while in California it rose to 19 percent from 9
percent.
But Levin said that the progress of the last two years would be
jeopardized if House Republicans cut spending on programs for poor
people, as required under the budget blueprint approved by the
House on June 5.
Authors of the report were quick to point out that some
important questions remained unanswered. The report does not show
the effects of the 1996 law on the well-being of children. It does
not measure the extent of hunger or homelessness among people
removed from the welfare rolls. Nor does it show what will happen
if the economy, now booming, turns sour.
 Forty-two states have liberalized their rules on earned income
so that welfare recipients can keep more of their monthly cash
assistance payments after they begin working. Nearly all states
have increased their limits on the value of automobiles and other
assets that people can own while receiving public assistance.
 The proportion of adult welfare recipients who are told to
pursue education and job training has declined in the last three
years. Instead, people are routinely told to get jobs as soon as
they apply for welfare.
 Nineteen states have adopted stricter time limits on welfare
than the five-year limit set by the 1996 federal law. But most of
these states make exceptions in some cases.
In Connecticut, the General Accounting Office found that 2,667
families had reached the 21-month time limit by December 1997. In
this group, 1,666 families lost welfare benefits, but the other
1,001 families, representing more than one-third of the total, got
extensions allowing them to continue receiving cash assistance.
More than half of the people removed from the rolls 972 of the
1,666 families did not request an extension. Almost all the
people who unsuccessfully sought a continuation of their welfare
benefits had earnings or other household income.
Set in 1920s Rotterdam, director Mike van Diem's debut feature
manages an adroit mixture of passion and repression, destiny and
character study. It's not exactly a lighthearted romp, and it
leaves a strong impression as well as a sense of a filmmaker with
something more on his mind than merchandise tie-ins.
The picture opens with a tense confrontation between an
emotional young man named Jacob Willem Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huet)
and a powerful older man, Dreverhaven (Jan Decleir). What's
immediately clear is that there's bad blood between them.
Cut to the police station. Dreverhaven, a heartless and
much-feared bailiff who prides himself on his lack of compassion
for the poor, has been murdered. Katadreuffe is the prime suspect.
We soon learn, via flashbacks framed by the police
interrogation, that there was more than bad blood between the two:
There was shared blood. Katadreuffe is Dreverhaven's illegitimate
son, the issue of a near-rape committed against his stone-faced
housekeeper, Joba (Betty Schuurman).
What ensues, for the most part, are Katadreuffe's bitter
memories of the relentless war waged between father and son. At
every turn, the son seems somehow thwarted by his father. Are these
cruelties meant to be character-revealing (of the father) or
character-building (for the son)? Perhaps a bit of both.
Van Diem somewhat overdoes the Oedipal sturm und drang that
colors their bitter conflict. However, so much happens so quickly
that you barely have time to worry about it. Van Huet is determined
and sympathetic as the abandoned son driven to distraction (and
murder?) by his formidable father's notions of tough love. Decleir
is equally forceful in a more one-dimensional role.
That's the way creator Chris Carter likes it. His movie is more
of the same. It's a chimeric beast, fusing Nixon-era conspiracy
paranoia with a millennial dread of biological warfare, domestic
terrorism and little green men from outer space. Oh, and there's a
sexy lead couple to keep our eyes soothed when the plot gets too
shaggy.
As FBI agents Mulder and Scully, David Duchovny and Gillian
Anderson take a smooth step up from television to the big screen.
The script tweaks their patented deadpan style without veering into
camp. As for those Internet rumors of romance, the movie handles
the characters' celebrated sexual tension with a scene that's the
equivalent of a knowing wink.
You may wonder about logistics, for instance. How does Mulder
get so easily from D.C. to Antarctica when his every move is being
watched? You may also marvel at his knack for always choosing the
right direction during a chase and his luck at literally stumbling
into a secret entrance to a vast military site.
The film may seem too familiar to series fans, too confusing to
newcomers. A colleague who doesn't watch the show followed the plot
OK. But she was bothered that Mulder and Scully acted so surprised
by the conspiracy and alien elements. Haven't they been
investigating these things for five years? While she had a fine
time watching, nothing about the movie made her eager to tune into
the series.
Fans may get a headache from trying to match the film's
semi-explanation of things with the hints and snippets the series
has dropped. The movie does not tie up a lot of loose ends. After
all, the series is committed for another two years; creator Carter
isn't ready to knock down his own house of cards.
FBI Special Agent Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) Brilliant but
darkly obsessed agent who believes his sister, Samantha, was
abducted by aliens as a child. On his quest, he is uncovering
pieces of a far-reaching conspiracy involving an alien attempt to
colonize Earth and powerful men who are helping the aliens.
FBI Special Agent Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) Mulder's
partner, who usually plays a scientific and rational role to his
intuitive, seat-of-the-pants style.
FBI Assistant Director Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) Mulder
and Scully's boss, he's mainly a benevolent protector who looks out
for them, but sometimes tries to rein them in.
Cigarette-Smoking Man (William B. Davis) Shadowy unnamed
figure who's somehow a key. Works for the Syndicate (see below) but
may have his own agenda.
The X-Files Secret FBI files on cases involving unexplained
phenomena (X unexplained). On the series, these can involve all
sorts of spooky stuff, including vampires, werewolves, telekinesis,
etc. The important ones are about aliens and are part of the core
mythology of the series.
The aliens There are believed to be at least two kinds, maybe
more. The bad aliens are attempting to colonize and enslave Earth
and use their life force, a black, oily substance, to take over
humans. They have been here for thousands of years, although it's
not clear yet what is taking so long. Some good aliens, who are
shape-shifters and can take human form, may be fighting the bad
aliens, but they are involved in the TV series, not the movie.
http://www.fightthefuture.com The movie's official Web site.
It doesn't offer nearly as much information as the unofficial
sites, but you can download the movie trailer if you have a fast
modem and plenty of time.
WALDO, Fla. Firefighting teams labored through yet another day
of relentless heat and roaring flames, and somehow managed to avert
major damage to homes and businesses as the Florida wildfire crisis
continued Thursday.
Flames bedeviled areas of Jacksonville's west side and flared up
as far south as Brevard County, near Kennedy Space Center. Fires
also continued raging in Charlton County, Ga., just north of the
state line, where some 9,000 acres of timberland have burned near
the town of St. George.
Weather forecasters offered little hope of improved conditions,
predicting that rain would come only in quick, scattered showers
for the next few days.
In the rural town of Waldo, about 15 miles northeast of
Gainesville, city officials Thursday maintained the evacuation
ordered Wednesday afternoon when flames crept to within 20 feet of
several homes.
Firefighters were helped a little bit Thursday because winds
stayed relatively calm. Earlier in the week, brisk westerly breezes
fanned the flames, making conditions much more tricky and
dangerous. There also were scattered thunderstorms in the area late
Thursday.
Although most of the flames have been concentrated in sparsely
populated rural areas, the fires have sent a thick cloud of hazy
smoke over large portions of North and Central Florida. Health
officials are warning people with respiratory problems to remain
indoors with their air conditioners running.
While most of the fires are at least 20 to 25 miles inland from
the state's Atlantic beaches, the smoke extended to within a few
miles of the ocean in some spots. Afternoon sea breezes helped push
the smoke back inland.
Tourism officials in Jacksonville reported a few concerned calls
from people planning to come to their area on vacation. The callers
were assured that the beaches and golf courses have not been
affected by the fires, said Kitty Ratcliffe, president of the
Jacksonville and the Beaches Convention and Visitors Bureau.
The fires have burned across Florida since Memorial Day,
consuming more than 40,000 acres, injuring 13 firefighters and
killing one person. Nearly 80 homes have burned or sustained
damage. Most parts of the state have received no significant
rainfall since March.
And the French national soccer team stood nearby, under the
stars on a beautiful Paris night Thursday, indeed looking like a
team ready to march under the arc next month triumphantly holding
the World Cup trophy.
On the way to pounding out the most one-sided victory of the
tournament thus far, much to the delight of 80,000 adoring,
flag-waving, anthem-singing fans who made for an unforgettable
scene at Stade de France, the French were close to perfect.
The victory was surprisingly one-sided considering the expected
strength of the Saudi team. There were spectacular plays that
included long, perfectly placed passes, crisp midfield moves by
superstar Zinedine Zidane and a beautiful back-heel pass from Youri
Djorkaeff to Bixente Lizarazu for France's final goal.
The French took a whopping 16 shots in the game, seven of them
on target and four hitting the net.
But, alas, Zidane was one who seemed to get too caught up in the
emotion in the 70th minute. And Zidane's grave mistake might be the
only reason France today cannot be talked about in the same breath
as Brazil, Germany and Italy, who have had similarly overwhelming
efforts in this tournament.
Zidane was red-carded by referee Arturo Brizio of Mexico after
an obvious hard tackle from behind. Earlier in the day, FIFA
president Sepp Blatter and France '98 president Michel Platini
scolded referees for not sufficiently enforcing the
tackle-from-behind rule.
Referees listened. In the South Africa-Denmark game earlier in
the day, a nearly unheard-of three red cards were issued. And early
in France's easy victory, Saudi Arabia's Mohammed Al-Khilaiwi was
issued a red.
Some of those calls might have been questionable under some
officials' interpretations. But Zidane, who was playing superbly
well to the 70th minute, did not argue.
The severe foul not only caused France's best player to be
ejected from the game, but by rule Zidane will be ineligible for
the next two games the second of which will be a round-of-16
elimination game.
Still, France can only feel good about Thursday's effort. It is
guaranteed of advancing, and the offense and defense could not have
looked better, after a similarly strong 3-0 victory over South
Africa in France's opener.
Thierry Henry scored France's first goal on a nice feed from
Zidane in just the ninth minute, then young David Trezeguet, 20,
added a nice rip into the net in the 68th minute.
Henry added his third goal of the tournament in the 77th minute,
and Lizarazu finished things off after the snazzy pass from
Djorkaeff.
But it's no wonder that the aptly named Guppy is soon hooked.
He's got all the comforts of home plus regular sex and some very
nice gifts. Things get more complicated, however, when Joyce
demands her share of the action. Their not-quite menage a trois
becomes a fertile breeding ground for sexual tension, blackmail,
jealousy and worse.
In one of the more disturbing film introductions in a while, we
meet 5-year-old Danny shortly before he plunges his hands into a
pregnant neighbor's womb
(Blethyn plays the mom). That's because she's gone into labor
unexpectedly, and it's up to him to disentangle the baby from the
umbilical cord.
The baby is a girl, christened Anna. And Danny swears he'll
someday marry her. Jump ahead 20 years. Danny is now played by Law,
Anna by a lovely but gratingly shrill actress named Gretchen Mol.
Though she's engaged to a rich guy (Jon Tenney), Danny, back
from living abroad for two decades, falls for Anna all over again.
And angles to win her back.
Blethyn is wasted as an exuberant life force saddled with one of
those obscure terminal diseases you only get in movies. Law does
his best to hold onto his dignity in an underwritten, uninteresting
role.
But you can't help but feel some contact humiliation when the
actors have to mouth Peters' empty homilies about love and fate.
The movie is an embarrassment of twitches.
The testimony by the lawyer, Francis Carter, has been sought
from the outset of the inquiry by the independent counsel, Kenneth
Starr. Carter helped prepare a document on Ms. Lewinsky's behalf in
the Paula Jones lawsuit, in which Ms. Lewinsky denied under oath
that she had had a sexual relationship with Clinton.
Ms. Lewinsky was referred to Carter by Vernon Jordan, a close
friend of the president. Jordan has said that he took Ms. Lewinsky
to see Carter at about the time he was helping to arrange a job for
her and while she faced a subpoena in the sexual harassment lawsuit
brought by Mrs. Jones against Clinton. The subpoena ordered her to
provide testimony about her relationship with the president.
Emerging after a full day before the grand jury, Carter made no
statement and declined to answer reporters' questions. His lawyer,
Charles Ogletree, said that some questions were posed about
Carter's relationship with Jordan, but he declined to provide
details of the testimony or any other questions that his client had
been asked.
Both Carter and Ms. Lewinsky had argued that his conversations
with Ms. Lewinsky were protected by the lawyer-client privilege.
But a federal judge ruled that prosecutors had presented evidence
that the privilege was not applicable because Ms. Lewinsky might
have used her lawyer to violate federal law, according to lawyers
who have seen the judge's ruling.
No evidence has surfaced to indicate that Carter did anything
improper in helping Ms. Lewinsky to prepare her affidavit.
But in immunity talks with prosecutors, Ms. Lewinsky's
subsequent lawyers had proposed as part of secret settlement
discussions that she would be willing to testify that she did have
sex with Clinton, according to lawyers involved in those talks.
Also on Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said she had not
decided whether to open an inquiry following accusations in a new
magazine, Brill's Content, that Starr has made improper disclosures
to reporters about his investigation. Starr has denied those
accusations. Ms. Reno said she had referred the matter to the
Department's Office of Professional Responsibility.
But Gary Stevens put off plans to ride in Europe this month
because the dates conflicted with tonight's NTRA All-Star
Championship at Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie.
He describes last year's event as one of his greatest thrills in
racing, eclipsed only by his first Kentucky Derby victory in 1988
with filly Winning Colors, and by his Triple Crown near-miss with
1997's Silver Charm.
The four-race competition has proved so popular with the public
and the participants, it has become a national fixture in only its
second season. The National Thoroughbred Racing Association, the
sport's new marketing arm, is sponsoring this year's renewal and
has brought aboard ESPN2 for a live 9-10 p.m. CDT telecast.
Stevens, last year's winner, will return to defend his title
against fellow Hall of Famers Jerry Bailey, Pat Day, Eddie
Delahoussaye, Sandy Hawley, Chris McCarron and Laffit Pincay Jr.
Rounding out the field are Kent Desormeaux, Julie Krone, Shane
Sellers, Mike Smith and Lone Star leading rider Marlon St. Julien.
Twice in this decade, nine of the All-Star jockeys shared a
starting gate. All except Krone, Hawley and St. Julien rode in the
1994 Kentucky Derby, won by McCarron aboard Go for Gin. And all
except Pincay, Hawley and St. Julien were in the 1995 Derby, which
went to Stevens on Thunder Gulch.
But in those major races, the emphasis was more on horses than
jockeys, as it should be.
Tonight, the jockeys will be in the spotlight and the horses
they ride will receive little attention, surprisingly. In fact,
when Lone Star racecaller John Dooley describes the action, he will
again call the names of the riders rather than the horses.
A total of $100,000 in prize money will be distributed, of which
$25,000 goes to the winning jockey and a guaranteed $5,000 to each
rider regardless of finish. Additionally, 1 percent of the total
nationwide betting on the four races will be donated to the
disabled riders' fund administered by the Jockey's Guild.
Because so much depends on the luck of the draw, jockeys regard
the event as more of a showcase than a true championship.
The latter could describe Stevens' plight tonight. He benefited
from a good draw last year, but this time his best mount is Dread
Me Not, the 5-to-1 third favorite in the second race. His other
three mounts are all held at 10-to-1 or higher in the program.
On the other hand, All-Star newcomer Sandy Hawley, who will
retire next month, might have received a going-away present in the
draw. He picked up Little Guy, a solid second-race favorite, and
also has a chance to win or pick up runner-up points with
consistent First Gold in the fourth race.
Jockeys get 12 points for a victory, six points for second, four
for third and three for fourth.
Much of this is conjecture, of course, but legendary 51-year-old
Pincay appears to have gotten the worst of the draw for a second
consecutive year.
Pincay didn't score a point last year. And unless he can pull a
rabbit out of his hat with Pops' Po Boy from the unappealing No. 12
post position in the 1 1/16-mile second race, he might not score
tonight, either.
Whatever happens, though, Pincay and the other All-Star riders
said the experience will be an enjoyable and rewarding one.
Here is the CoxNet weekend budget for the weekend of June 20-22.
This budget will be updated every afternoon through the
week.Questions about stories from Cox newspapers on this budget
should be directed to CoxNet, the Cox News Service, in Atlanta at
800-950-3739 or 404-526-5456.
CHINA-TRAVEL BEIJING If you know China, don't bother reading
this. You are already convinced that from megalopolis to
mist-shrouded mountaintop, China is an engaging place. This is
written for the couple of hundred million other Americans who may
love to knock about in bizarre places but haven't yet made it to
the Middle Kingdom. You'll find that China offers spectacular
travel riveting vistas, exotic cultures embracing thousands of
years, enticing food on almost every corner of every city. If the
news coverage surrounding President Clinton's trip to China June
25-July 3 intrigues you whether it's an aged peasant's creased
smile or the serenity of a Guilin lagoon that sinks the hook in
your wanderlust make a plan and go for it. In the three months
we've been living and working in China, we've managed a sampling of
some not-to-miss places. China is more tourist-friendly than ever.
(Kunstel/Albright, Cox News Service).
With CHINA-TRAVEL-SIDE BEIJING This is the city central to
your China trip. From the chaotic alleys called hutongs to the
grace of the Forbidden City built for the emperor and his
entourage, China's capital can keep you happily occupied for five
days. After that, it gets to be work. An aimless stroll or float
across the lake in Beihai Park will put you in the company of
Chinese relaxing away an afternoon. Or try hunting down the Niujie
Mosque, where tranquil gardens date back to the 15th Century, and
the nearby Fayuansi Buddhist temple to see an ancient spiritual
dimension of modern Chinese life. Here are some recommendations
specific to Beijing touring. (Albright/Kunstel, Cox News Service).
CLINTON-TRIP When he visits China later this month, virtually
everything President Clinton does every step he takes, every
place he goes, every bite he eats - will have been choreographed
weeks in advance by a horde of advance men and women who will have
scheduled every second of his trip. After spending hours studying
videotapes of the routes Clinton will take, Secret Service agents
will have ensured that manhole covers are sealed and air ducts
blocked to prevent potential assassins from planting bombs. His
armor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead. Hotels will have
been comandeered for the president and his entourage. Detailed
briefing books will have been prepared for him, providing
classified information on the ranking officials with whom he will
meet. Phone banks will have been put in place for the traveling
White House press. Sophisticated electronics gear will have been
installed so the media can beam images back to the United States.
In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked around the
clock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to make sure
the whole thing goes off without a hitch. Bob recently represented
the print press corps on a trip to China with about 40 White House
advance people responsible for putting the trip together. This
would be a behind-the-scenes look at how a WH trip is staged.
(Deans, Cox News Service).
BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON What's ahead for a House-passed bill
that would force people who declare bankruptcy to pay back more of
their debts, if they can. (Harlan, Cox News Service).
MICROSOFT-CULTURE REDMOND, Wash. Microsoft has brought a new
corporate style to the corridors of corporate America. It lets
low-ranking employees help shape corporate policy, but takes a
hard-nosed stance against corporate or government influence. A
visit to Microsoft's campus to see how this culture has helped
produced not only the world's most popular software whose latest
version ships Thursday, June 25 but also a bitter antitrust
battle. (Glass, Cox News Service).
FIRES The wildfires that that terrorized north Florida this
week are now moving across the swamp into Georgia. We look at the
upheaval and the danger for embattled residents and firefighters.
(MWilliams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).
OPENLIVES Twenty-four hour video cameras monitor Central Park.
At some day care centers, parents now look in via the Internet to
check on how their children are being treated. Electronic databases
track the movies you rent. Automated gas pumps record where you
fill your tank. Your boss may be reading your E-Mail, or counting
the keystrokes you type. Don't like someone looking over your
shoulder? Better get used to it. Author, futurist and physicist
David Brin says we're hurtling headlong into an era when everyone's
life will soon be an open book. Welcome to the Transparent Society.
(Toner, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).
WINDOWS Windows 98 finally will go on shelves June 25
(actually sooner as Microsoft rushes to get it out there before the
J-Department takes further action. We take a look at the commercial
release. In the past we've reviewed test copies, but this is the
real package that users will get. (Husted, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)
TECBUD To go with Windows 98 centerpiece, we look at ways to
get the home PC ready for the new product. How much more RAM do you
need? How about a new hard disk? Do you need a new video card?
((Husted, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)
At the same time, his wife, Teresa, was recovering from
open-heart surgery. The bills began mounting, and still are. Harry,
69, has lost his voice and has to scribble what he wants to say on
a notepad.
That chance comes from Habitat for Humanity, which is building
low-cost homes for the Russells and 99 other families this week.
About 6,000 volunteers have been working on the Jimmy Carter Work
Project, which is supposed to wrap things up Friday.
Thursday was the fourth day of construction on the sites in
Houston's Second and Fifth Wards, and several volunteers were
excited at the progress being made.
Another problem encountered by volunteers was loss of work time
Monday due to excessive morning heat and evening thunderstorms.
Shirl said approximately four hours per house, or 400 hours, of
work was lost.
All 100 homes are expected to be completed Friday, after
plumbers and electricians complete their work and volunteers
landscape the lots and finish hanging doors. Starting Saturday and
continuing into next week, volunteers and Habitat staff members
will inspect the houses to make sure all is ready for move-in day,
June 27.
For most of those involved, Friday will be the last day of work
on the project. Houses will be dedicated, and homeowners will get a
peek at what will be their new place to live.
NEW YORK Long viewed as one of the world's most attractive
targets for terrorists, New York City has quietly undertaken an
ambitious effort to counter attacks carried out with deadly
chemicals or germs, according to city officials.
The city is buying germ detectors, working out deals with
regional hospitals for emergency care, striking unusual accords
with drug companies to make medicines quickly in an emergency and
taking steps to stockpile medications, officials say.
Since September, about 4,000 city police officers and
firefighters have undergone training in reacting to germ or
chemical attacks. And next week, about 1,000 doctors in New York
are to be trained by federal experts.
Emergency planners face bewildering problems in preparing to
deal with germ attacks, the foremost being how to tell if sudden
outbreaks of illness are natural or purposeful. Malicious strikes
are hard to detect rapidly since deadly microbes might incubate in
human bodies for hours, days, weeks or even months before causing
widespread havoc.
Dealing with waves of sick or dying victims is a planner's
nightmare, as is cleaning up contaminated areas and buildings. The
spores of anthrax, one of the most common biological warfare
agents, can live for centuries.
Two months ago, city officials began monitoring patterns of
emergency hospitalization so that they can more swiftly determine
if unconventional weapons are used to attack New York. Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani, officials say, has asked to be personally
informed of any suspicious patterns of illness.
Experts agree that skillful terrorists in theory could injure or
kill thousands, if not millions, of people, but disagree on the
exact dimensions of the threat. Too little is known of that shadowy
underworld, they say.
Federal and local officials have become increasingly worried in
recent years about the possibility of germ and chemical attacks.
Nationally, the worries stem from American intelligence reports
about terrorists planning attacks and such incidents as a religious
cult's assaults on Tokyo with nerve gas and germs.
Locally, the danger from terrorists was driven home in 1993,
when a terrorist bomb planted by Islamic militants exploded under
the World Trade Center, killing six people and injuring 1,000.
Congress has provided about $100 million to support the training
of local officials nationwide to cope with unconventional terrorist
attacks. But the Pentagon said only 27 of the 120 cities in that
program had received assistance so far. And many have yet to
receive equipment.
In interviews, New York City officials said they were torn
between reassuring the public by revealing the defensive
preparations and panicking people with doomsday scenarios that, in
recent attack studies and simulations, have easily overwhelmed the
city's existing defenses.
A sizable part of the $17 million that New York has devoted to
emergency preparations has been spent on dealing with
unconventional threats from terrorists. Five of the 50 people in
the city's Office of Emergency Management work full time on the
problem, officials said.
City officials said Giuliani has been a driving force behind New
York's heightened preparations. The officials said the city's
planned $15 million crisis control center was described by these
officials as a part of the city's emerging defenses.
The city plans to have the ventilation system of the crisis
management center near the World Trade Center adopt a defensive
strategy known as positive pressure, experts say. This precaution
keeps a gentle breeze blowing outward whenever a door or window is
opened, automatically helping to keep out dangerous germs or
chemicals.
The city's defenses are being organized by the Office of
Emergency Management. Hauer is also a member of a small group of
scientists and public health officials who have been advising
President Clinton on germ warfare and civil defense.
Until now, Hauer and other local officials have declined to be
specific about the city's preparations. Some of the steps being
taken and their motivation were outlined Tuesday by William Nagle,
a deputy director of the Office of Emergency Planning, at a
conference in Washington, which was sponsored by the Potomac
Institute for Policy Studies.
The 4,000 members of the city's police and fire units who have
undergone military instruction of a day or more in how to deal with
germ and chemical attacks, he said, have been taught to fight their
instincts in such an emergency.
Hauer, the office's director, said the city had spent more than
$1 million to buy two mobile emergency trailers filled with
containment vessels of different sizes that can isolate dangerous
germs or chemicals, as well as equipment to respond to an attack.
It has bought several hundred portable detectors to help
identify the exact nature of an infectious strike within as little
as 10 minutes. One type is as small as a matchbook; the other,
known as an immunoassay, is a boxy gadget that uses an antibody to
detect the presence of a dangerous germ. New York is the first city
to acquire the latter, Hauer said.
The federal government is sponsoring five meetings in which New
York and other officials play out what would happen if the city
were attacked with biological weapons. From these exercises,
federal officials plan to glean lessons which are meant to be
applied nationwide, making New York a model.
In the first of these meetings last April, more than 50
scientists, government officials and state and local emergency
preparedness teams met in secret on the outskirts of Washington
D.C.
They were confronted with a chilling scenario: More than a
thousand people in a 15-story office building in mid-town Manhattan
were attacked by a germ disseminated through the unfiltered air
ducts.
According to the script, the spray contained tularemia, a highly
infectious germ that causes chills, fever, muscle aches, fatigue,
pneumonia-like symptoms and can be fatal. The germs spread quickly
throughout the building, whose windows were sealed, as they are in
so many modern buildings. Within 15 minutes, virtually the entire
building was infected.
In the war game, officials said, by the time doctors diagnosed
the mysterious illness as tularemia and began prescribing proper
antibiotics, the epidemic had run its course. Because the
hypothetical terrorist had chosen a germ that causes a disease with
a 35 percent mortality rate, only a third of the 1,080 people who
fell ill died.
WASHINGTON Ten days after the Food and Drug Administration
took the heart medication, Posicor, off the market, a new warning
has been issued about the drug: A team of doctors in Oregon has
reported that four patients who stopped taking Posicor went into
shock after switching to other drugs, and one of them has died as a
result.
Each of the four cases occurred before Posicor's withdrawal, and
the drug's manufacturer, Roche Laboratories of Nutley, N.J., did
not learn of them until last week. The company has since cautioned
doctors to wait seven days before giving certain drugs calcium
channel blockers and beta-blockers to patients who have
discontinued Posicor.
Posicor, which treats high blood pressure and the chest pains
known as angina, was pulled off pharmacy shelves in 38 countries on
June 8 because it causes toxic and, in some cases, lethal
interactions with 26 other drugs. It was being taken by 400,000
people around the world, 200,000 of them in the United States.
At the time it was withdrawn, the drug agency and Roche
instructed patients not to stop taking Posicor, but to consult
their doctors about alternative therapies.
In an interview Thursday, however, Horowitz said Posicor remains
in the bloodstream for so long that it can cause toxic drug
interactions even in patients who have stopped taking it.
The four patients Horowitz identified ranged in age from 55 to
79. In each case, their doctors had stopped prescribing Posicor
because the drug was not working well. Each patient suffered shock,
in which the blood pressure drops to dangerous levels, or other
serious side effects within 12 hours of taking the new drugs. Three
survived after intensive treatment in hospital emergency rooms and
intensive care units; the 79-year-old, a woman, died.
Horowitz notified the FDA and had submitted an article to the
Journal of the American Medical Association when Posicor was
withdrawn from the market. Four days later, on June 12, Roche
mailed a warning to doctors.
WASHINGTON He is the energizer envoy, a nonstop negotiator who
can outflank and outflatter, outbluff and outbully all the other
players in the room.
Now Richard Holbrooke is back full time as the chief
representative at the United Nations, a job that brings with it
cabinet rank and a seat on the National Security Council.
Holbrooke, who negotiated the Bosnia peace agreement in 1995 and
has carried out diplomatic peacemaking missions to Cyprus and
Kosovo province in Serbia since then, was effusively praised
Thursday by President Clinton.
Holbrooke may have brought a fragile peace to Bosnia, but his
detractors point out that a goal of U.S. policy the creation of a
viable and united Bosnian state remains unfulfilled. Hundreds of
thousands of refugees and displaced persons have not returned home,
and Bosnia's Croats, Muslims and Serbs refuse to be stitched into a
unified republic.
To move the Bosnian Serbs toward an armistice, but to avoid
having to negotiate with them directly, Holbrooke persuaded Serbian
President Slobodan Milosevic to act as their negotiator and
representative.
This dependence on Milosevic to deliver the Bosnian Serbs opened
Holbrooke to intense criticism that he gave away too much to the
man who inspired the Bosnian war, a man whom many believe should
have been indicted as a war criminal, a man whose forces are today
conducting a violent campaign against ethnic Albanian rebels in
Kosovo.
In accepting the United Nations job his third stint in
government Holbrooke choked back tears as he described a lifelong
love for the United Nations that was instilled in him as an
8-year-old child visiting the United Nations with his parents.
Holbrooke, who has been a vice chairman of the investment
banking firm Credit Suisse First Boston for more than two years,
was a front-runner for the job of secretary of state in the second
Clinton term. He even interviewed for the post with Clinton, before
the president decided on Madeleine Albright.
That job was given to Bill Richardson, who was nominated to be
secretary of energy Thursday. This time around, Holbrooke was
offered and immediately accepted the job.
Holbrooke's style has been described as both exceedingly
charming and brutally tough. He survives on only a few hours of
sleep a night, can carry on two or three telephone conversations
and monitor television at the same time.
Richard Charles Albert Holbrooke was born on April 24, 1941, in
New York City, the elder of two sons of Dan Holbrooke, a doctor,
and Trudi Moos, the daughter of a leather exporter in Germany. Both
his parents, who were Jewish, fled the Nazis in the 1930s.
Holbrooke's father changed his name to Holbrooke when he arrived
in the United States. Holbrooke's mother took her son to Quaker
meetings on Sundays.
He attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale, N.Y., where his
closest friend was David Rusk, the son of Dean Rusk, the secretary
of state in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations.
He joined the Foreign Service in 1962 after graduating from
Brown University, and was sent to Vietnam.
In May 1968 he was sent to Paris as a junior member of the
delegation led by W. Averell Harriman to embark on his first
negotiations with the Vietcong.
Four years later he left government to become editor of Foreign
Policy Quarterly. After President Jimmy Carter took office in 1977,
Holbrooke came back to government to became assistant secretary of
state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, the youngest person ever
to hold an assistant secretary post.
From 1985 until he was named ambassador to Germany by Clinton in
1993, he was managing director of the New York investment firm
Lehman Brothers. A year later he was recalled to Washington to
become assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian
affairs a rank he held almost two decades earlier.
But in the late summer of 1995, with Secretary of State Warren
Christopher's blessing, Holbrooke was handed the most sensitive and
high-profile mission of his diplomatic career: to promote a peace
plan for Bosnia.
Holbrooke lives with his third wife, the author Kati Marton, and
her two children, Elizabeth Marton Jennings, 18, and Christopher
Marton Jennings, 15, on Central Park West.
Holbrooke said the family plans to remain in their apartment;
his official residence as U.N. ambassador a $27,000-a-month suite
atop the Waldorf Towers will be used for official functions.
For months, cigarette-industry executives have said they would
rather fight every lawsuit filed against them than support federal
legislation like the $516 billion tobacco bill introduced by Sen.
John McCain of Arizona. With the scuttling of the McCain bill on
Wednesday, they are now likely to get plenty of practice.
Today, over 800 lawsuits are pending against tobacco companies,
a figure that represents a quadrupling of the number of such cases
in just three years. And along with health-related cases brought by
individual smokers, new groups of claimants ranging from
officials of states and cities to insurers and union health plans
to Indian tribes have also jumped into the legal chase.
Some legal experts believe that many of these cases will
disappear or fail because they were filed simply to be in a
position to cash in on a potential congressional settlement of
tobacco litigation. And officials of tobacco companies, which have
been largely unscathed in court, say they are confident they will
continue to prevail.
But the rapidly accelerating pace of lawsuits is also producing
a high-speed game of legal Russian roulette for those companies.
And every courtroom wound suffered by the industry, like a recent
$1 million verdict in Florida, is likely to bring still more
lawsuits, legal experts said.
Robert Rabin, a professor at Stanford University School of Law,
said he believed the industry had the resources to lose half of the
individual lawsuits brought against it as long as the number of
such cases annually ranged from 100 to 200 claims. But Rabin said
he foresees a litigation landslide if juries start giving out large
punitive-damage awards or if class-action claims like one set to
begin in Florida next month succeed.
In the Florida case, producers face the first class-action
lawsuit ever brought to trial on behalf on smokers throughout a
state claiming addiction or tobacco-related injuries. And in
September, the industry faces another legal test when the trial of
a lawsuit brought by the attorney general of Washington state to
recover Medicaid expenses begins.
Tobacco-industry lawyers said that they are ready to take on all
comers. And they add the industry's decision to pay out some $35
billion over the past year to settle lawsuits brought by four
states Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota did not
reflect the weakness of their legal position, but rather the legal
quirks of those cases and the industry's eagerness not to upset
momentum for a national resolution.
Little and other industry lawyers point to a number of recent
victories in which tobacco companies managed to have thrown out
lawsuits brought by union health plans against them on procedural
grounds or have some of the damage claims in lawsuits brought by
state attorneys general thrown out.
But even some lawyers who have worked closely with the industry
said tobacco makers now faced a new host of legal challenges
because damaging industry documents had been recently disclosed as
part of those settlements and were already being put to use against
the industry.
Earlier this month, for example, a Florida jury, which reviewed
documents initially obtained by the state of Minnesota, ordered
Brown Williamson Tobacco Co. to pay $1 million, including
$500,000 in punitive damages, to the family of a man whose death
from cancer was blamed on cigarettes. And lawyers handling the
Florida class-action claim are now battling in court to use the
Minnesota records in their case.
It was the desire to end legal uncertainty that led five major
tobacco companies to pursue last June's $368.5 billion settlement
proposal with state attorneys generals and class-action lawyers.
That plan, under which producers agreed to restrict tobacco
advertising and pay penalties if youth smoking did not fall,
settled state lawsuits and barred class-action lawsuits and the
awarding of punitive damages.
Those provisions were critical because compensatory damages in
smoking lawsuit, which have rarely been paid, were small. But a
punitive damage award, which is meant to punish a company, or the
loss of a class-action case could produce significant financial
damage.
Still, as the price tag of the June proposal grew in the Senate,
cigarette producers saw the prospects of higher prices for their
products, lowered sales and the loss of lawsuit protections they
had sought.
Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, a
company that advises institutional investors on legal terms, said
she is not surprised that producers have decided to take their
chances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.
The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewed
courtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general to
jump-start their lawsuits against producers. A large majority of
the states involved in last June's plan were late in suing
producers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to win
congressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.
Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over the
past year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in a
lawsuit against a cigarette company. Such a bill, which effectively
allows a state to recover collectively rather than pressing
individual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was considered
instrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate a successful
settlement with the industry.
Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, said
that while some states have lost ground waiting to see what
Congress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceeding
actively.
Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try and
restart settlement negotiations between the industry and some state
attorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks very
preliminary.
Ms. Aronson and other legal experts added that while they
believed the industry could overcome many of the claims filed
against it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.
They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers and
union health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the first
time. And while those actions might not initially succeed, the
success of one could open the door for others.
In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and the
steady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs about
tobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.
Aronson and others added.
North American shares have been led down by profit-takers who
have seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,
according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in Los
Angeles.
Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer side
effects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly in
the coming decade. In addition to North American, just two other
companies currently make the seeds.
North American shares have been led down by profit-takers who
have seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,
according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in Los
Angeles.
Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer side
effects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly in
the coming decade. In addition to North American, just two other
companies currently make the seeds.
North American shares have been led down by profit-takers who
have seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,
according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in Los
Angeles.
Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer side
effects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly in
the coming decade. In addition to North American, just two other
companies currently make the seeds.
DETROIT The best time to buy a new car is August or September,
right? Perhaps not this year: The end-of-the-model-year clearance
may have already begun.
Sellers usually offer their best deals in late summer and early
fall, as dealers try to clear their lots and showrooms to make room
for the next year's models. This year, however, supplies are
already low, thanks to a hearty economy, near-record vehicle sales,
generous sales incentives and a spreading autoworker strike against
General Motors Corp. With fewer cars to sell, manufacturers are
likely to cut back on their inducements to buyers.
U.S. vehicle sales reached 1.5 million cars and trucks in May,
making it the strongest month since September 1986. The seasonally
adjusted annual selling rate reached 16.3 million, the best level
since October 1987, and the trend appears to be continuing this
month.
James Holden, Chrysler Corp.'s executive vice president for
sales and marketing, said Chrysler's sales have been strong this
month. In May, Chrysler sold 250,000 cars and trucks, a one-month
record.
The strong car and truck sales are set against the backdrop of a
robust economy, and low interest rates have brought a wave of
mortgage refinancings, putting more money in Americans' pockets.
But vehicle manufacturers have also offered sweeteners, spending as
much as $1,700 a vehicle on sales incentives like cash rebates,
low-interest loans and discount coupons in May and June, up from
about $1,100 a year earlier.
In April, after GM's share of the U.S. vehicle market fell below
30 percent, the company sent previous customers certificates of
$500 to $1,000 to use toward the purchase of 50 models, above and
beyond other incentives. Ford and Chrysler matched GM's program
with their own loyalty incentives and agreed to accept GM's
certificates. GM has declined to take coupons from Ford and
Chrysler.
The industry is now closely watching strike developments at GM,
the largest automaker. Since workers at two Michigan parts
factories walked out two weeks ago, 21 of GM's North American
assembly plants have shut down, idling more than 80,000 workers.
Analysts say that if the strike is not settled soon it is likely to
last into mid-July, when a two-week plant shutdown was previously
scheduled. The strike, along with healthy spring sales, have caused
supplies of GM's cars and trucks, especially the most popular
models, to dwindle.
Inventories are particularly low of two all-new compact cars,
the Pontiac Grand Am/Oldsmobile Alero, that were just introduced;
of the Chevrolet Tahoe/GMC Yukon sport utilities, and of the
Chevrolet Malibu sedan. If the strike continues, it could interfere
with production of GM's most important models: all-new, full-size
Chevrolet and GMC pickups that replace the company's highly
profitable, best-selling vehicles.
WASHINGTON - An evening with Gov. George W. Bush was the hot
ticket in the nation's capital Thursday as he flew in for a
get-together with his family's longtime political supporters, a
two-event reunion expected to boost his campaign treasury by more
than $1 million.
Although the money was earmarked for his re-election bid, the
response from Washington lobbyists, Republican activists and
officials from his father's White House hampered Bush's efforts to
knock down talk of his being a contender for the presidency in
2000.
Responses to an invitation to dine with the governor over corn
chowder and beef medallions was so great that the $5,000-a-person
event had to be moved to a hotel from the home of Joseph
Gildenhorn, who was ambassador to Switzerland under the governor's
father, former President George Bush.
On Wednesday, the guest list for the reception at the swank
Willard Hotel was barely more than 500. By the time the governor
arrived in town, more than 800 were ponying up $500 for cocktails
and hors d'ouvres.
Before arriving in Washington, Bush was one of the key draws at
a fund-raiser Thursday in Greensboro, N.C., for Sen. Lauch
Faircloth. Bush also has helped raise money for gubernatorial
candidates in California and Ohio, for the Republican National
Committee and the Republican Governors Association. He also
participated in an Arizona fund-raiser for Sen. John McCain.
By the time formal invitations were printed, 156 people had
signed up as hosts or chairmen of the reception and 52 were helping
to put on the dinner along with Gildenhorn.
The money Bush raised Thursday is expected to push his campaign
treasury past the $16 million mark, which gives him a huge edge
over Democratic rival Garry Mauro. The latest figures available
indicate Mauro, the state land commissioner, has raised $2.5
million.
Bush holds a equally lopsided lead over Mauro among the state's
voters, according to the most recent Texas Poll. Published
Thursday, the poll shows Bush favored by 70 percent of the state's
voters compared to 17 percent for Mauro. Mauro says the poll is
flawed and that a Democratic pollster shows him trailing Bush but
by a narrower margin, 63-28 percent.
Early next week, Mauro has scheduled his own fund-raising
excursion to Washington, where he will be joined by President
Clinton at a $1,000-a-person reception and first lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton at a $5,000-a-plate dinner. Vice President Al Gore
will attend a fund-raiser for Mauro in El Paso on June 25. All
three events are expected to raise about $400,000. XXXXXXXEND OF STORY
To that end, technicians at three Cadillac dealerships are
testing a new computer technology developed by the General Motors
Service Technology Group that lets them call up reams of service
information with a spoken request. Called Smart Mentor, the system
includes a small computer that can be worn by the technician and is
equipped with software that guides him through the diagnostic and
repair process.
Because of its advanced speech-recognition technology, the Smart
Mentor is easy to master even by people who have never used a
personal computer. The technician talks to the computer carried in
a pouch attached to the waist. A portable monitor hooks to the
bumper or fender of a car. The monitor displays text, animation and
video instructions to diagnose and repair the vehicle.
James L. Roach, senior project engineer for General Motors'
Service Technology Group, demonstrated the system at the New York
auto show in April, by telling the computer that a 1997 Cadillac
Seville had an electrical charging problem. A list of symptoms
popped up on the screen, and Roach selected those that the car was
exhibiting. The computer diagnosed the problem, suggested the tools
the technician needed to make the repair and displayed a diagram of
the area to be worked on.
The hands-free system allows the technician to continue working
without leaving the job to look up information in paper manuals or
a distant computer. In addition, Smart Mentor should help
technicians pinpoint problems more precisely, reducing the
possibility that they will recur.
Not only is this good for customer relations, the shortage of
service technicians requires that they work more efficiently. Two
years ago, GM chairman John Smith told the National Automobile
Dealers Association that by the turn of the century, 60,000
technician jobs would go unfilled.
The industry is looking to the military to fill some of those
jobs. Indeed, the Smart Mentor system was developed in cooperation
with a consortium that included the Defense Department and military
contractors. The same approach will be used by the military to
repair tanks and trucks.
Compounding the technician shortage is the increasing complexity
and additional electronics of today's cars and trucks. In 1965,
GM's service manuals contained 5,000 pages of text; the manuals now
run to 120,000 pages, and are likely to reach 200,000 pages within
two years.
ATLANTA -- The Cy Young Award has been passed around for a
couple of years. Greg Maddux apparently would like to have it back
now.
Subdued for five superb innings by Florida rookie Jesus Sanchez,
the Braves turned around Wednesday night with a four-run sixth to
beat the Marlins 6-2 and make Maddux baseball's first 10-game
winner of the year. Scratched for two unearned runs in the fourth
off a Tony Graffanino error, Maddux bore down to hold Florida
scoreless the rest of the way to improve his record to 10-2.
Winning their fourth straight, the Braves finally subdued
Sanchez with a four-run sixth, Gerald Williams' two-run double the
critical blow. Chipper Jones then closed the show with a two-run
homer in the seventh, his 18th of the year.
Maddux extended his win streak to eight games, the longest in
the NL this season.
Held scoreless for the first five innings for just the seventh
time this season, the Braves went up 4-2 in the sixth, which Maddux
began with a cue-shot single past first baseman Ryan Jackson. After
Walt Weiss walked on four pitches, Williams ripped Sanchez's first
pitch down the left field line, scoring both men to tie it. The
double was Williams second of the game and his third in his
previous four at-bats.
Andres Galarraga, who had struck out twice with men on, hit the
first pitch into the right-center gap for a 3-2 lead and after
Andruw Jones walked to load the bases, Danny Bautista sent a
shallow fly into right field. Chipper Jones tagged up anyway and
scored easily for a 4-2 advantage when Mark Kotsay's throw bounced
twice on the way to the plate.
Through the first five innings, Sanchez struck out nine and
although he had allowed a pair of doubles, both times he maneuvered
around the trouble. After Chipper Jones' two-out double in the
first, Sanchez struck out Galarraga to end the inning. After
Williams opened the fourth with a double, Sanchez fanned both Jones
and Galarraga before inducing an inning-ending ground-out from
Andruw Jones.
Maddux faced the minimum through the first three innings but
Todd Dunwoody became a problem in the fourth when he reached first
on second baseman Tony Graffanino's fourth error of the season.
Advanced to third by Edgar Renteria's sacrifice and Kotsay's
ground-out, Dunwoody scored the night's first run on Todd Zeile's
single.
Zeile, hitting .363 with runners in scoring position and two
outs since joining the Marlins, stole second on a 2-1 pitch to
Cliff Floyd. The Marlins' lead then grew to 2-0 when Floyd sent a
sinking liner into right, which Williams could not handle in a
diving attempt. Both runs were unearned.
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. In this region with one of America's fastest
growing Hispanic populations, little-known scientist Stephen D.
Mumford offers an unorthodox solution to the immigration problem he
sees brewing.
He suggests that developing nations supply women with tiny pills
that prevent pregnancy by scarring their fallopian tubes pills that
Mumford already supplies. The permanent sterilization would, in
turn, reduce the number of immigrants to the United States.
Over the past decade, quinacrine tablets that Mumford and fellow
contraceptive researcher Elton Kessel have distributed to Third
World countries have been used to sterilize more than 100,000
women.
Since Mumford's controversial role in international
contraception was reported in Thursday's editions of The Wall
Street Journal, the phone has been ringing in his brick split-level
house on the outskirts of this university town. Mostly, he said,
news organizations wanted him to elaborate on his views, or appear
on television talk shows where, Mumford concedes, he would likely
be lambasted as inhumane or crazy.
He said much of the U.S. population growth over the next half
century will be driven by immigrants, and he fears they will sap
the nation's resources and drive down the overall standard of
living.
First used by American soldiers in World War II to prevent
malaria, quinacrine is barred in the United States for
sterilizations. Many health organizations question its
effectiveness considering the possible risks.
Funded over the past decade by $1 million from U.S. backers,
including anti-immigration advocates, Mumford's efforts are
familiar to some in the field of population control. The recent
publicity, however, unleashed fresh criticism that repressive
governments can use quinacrine sterilization against women's will.
Mumford worked for the organization , but left in the early
1980s in a rift with more traditional researchers. His views on
immigration illustrate the split.
ATLANTA -- Mark Wohlers began walking from the bullpen with the
last pitch Thursday and did not stop until he found himself in the
manager's office, asking Bobby Cox to send him to the minors.
Although the Braves are uncertain how to handle the transaction,
Wohlers will leave today for the club's minor-league complex in
Orlando, where the deposed closer will attempt to relocate the
strike zone. To remain with the Braves had become a waste of
everyone's time.
The Braves closed out their nine-game homestand with a 3-2 loss
to the Florida Marlins, who beat Tom Glavine (9-3) for their first
road victory since May 18. Atlanta went 5-4 against visiting
Boston, Montreal and Florida, which claimed its sixth away victory
on an RBI single by Todd Ziele off Dennis Martinez with two outs in
the eighth.
Atlanta opens a weekend series in Montreal tonight. In the
meanwhile, the Braves are plotting options with Wohlers. The club
could place him on the disabled list again, claiming he is still
unfit to pitch because of the torn left oblique injured on May 4.
He then would be eligible to appear in Gulf Coast (Rookie) League
games with the Gulf Coast Braves.
He also could accept an optional assignment; players with five
years experience first must agree to such a move. But because
Wohlers is 28 and above the rookie-league minimum, he could not
appear in Gulf Coast competition. Guy Hansen, the Braves' special
assistant for scouting and player development, will join him on
Monday.
The assignment is open-ended, and no determination has been made
when Wohlers (0-1, 8-for-8 in save chances, 5.06 ERA) might rejoin
the team. If rumors about his future with the club were moving
before Thursday, they will be flying now.
ATLANTA -- Unless the Scottish Rite Festival expands the annual
Georgia-Florida All-Star Football Game to include a basketball game
or another interstate football game, Florida may choose not to
return to Atlanta after 1999, when the current three-year deal
expires.
Florida Athletic Coaches Association executive director Wink
Barnette said his organization agreed to the pact with the
understanding that Scottish Rite would add a Georgia-Florida
All-Star basketball game and bring football all-star teams from
Tennessee and either Kentucky or Alabama to form a doubleheader.
SAN DIEGO -- Chad Smith's got a pierced eyebrow, a tongue ring
and furry spotted pants that are available from his
alternative-clothing company, Vinyl Boy.
Oh, and he can skate, too, which got him into the ESPN X Games
this weekend. But it's the look that will get him on TV. Air time,
it seems, is an even bigger deal than the $10,000 purse in his
event.
Bogus? Maybe. That's the X Games part sport, part made-for-TV
entertainment tailored for the generation it's named for.
No one agrees more than Derek Downing of Cumming, who has won
the downhill in-line twice in the three-year X Games history. He's
enjoyed a few perks, like seeing his trophies displayed at the
All-Star Cafe. But in terms of exposure, his friend Smith has him
beat.
The prize money, three times larger than what's offered at most
pro skating events, ensures a competitive field even though
skaters don't take these kind of risks any other time all year.
Most in-line races are distance events on flatter terrain.
The format, cameras and hype have stamped the X Games as
made-for-TV, a label that makes organizers bristle. Out of the
extreme sports culture, they say, have emerged personalities that
cannot be ignored.
Embracing a trend that is rapidly reshaping the Internet, Walt
Disney Co. let it be known Thursday that the Tomorrowland of
cyberspace will be entered through a giant consumer gateway cobbled
with the gadgets of interactive technologies and the proven lure of
traditional media news, sports, entertainment and information.
On Thursday, Disney announced a complex deal valued at about
$900 million in which it will buy 43 percent of Infoseek, a service
that helps guide users to what they want on the World Wide Web. The
announcement capped two weeks of fevered developments across media
and technology industries that were too small to shake the
financial markets but obviously a trend that was too significant to
ignore.
Last week, General Electric's NBC unit struck a deal to take
control of Snap, an upstart online directory service, for up to $65
million in cash and more than $100 million in free television
promotions.
On Monday it was reported that ATT had been negotiating to
acquire America Online. And on Tuesday, Microsoft Corp. opened a
public test of its new portal, known as Start, which is expected to
be in full operation by the end of the year.
In the meantime, Netscape Communications Corp. is busy shifting
its focus from making browsers to operating a portal site, and
media giants like Time Warner and News Corp. are looking to build
or buy similar services.
While there are tens of thousands of commercial Web sites, most
of the attention is now focused on the handful that help users find
the information, services or entertainment what they are looking
for. Since many people use these sites to start their treks through
cyberspace, they are far and away the most popular places on the
Internet. As a result, they have attracted the lion's share of
advertising as well as investor interest.
America Online, which 18 months ago was drowning in busy signals
and irate customers, has rebounded into the powerhouse of
cyberspace with 12 million paying customers, a market value of $19
billion and the self assurance to rebuff ATT's takeover offer last
month.
Yahoo, the largest of the free, advertiser-supported portal
services, attracts more than 70 million users a month and has a
value of about $6 billion, despite barely breaking even.
As these sites grow rapidly in market value and viewership if
not profits many media companies are deciding that they need to
buy one quickly, despite the high prices, before they become
unaffordable. More than one media giant has expressed regret for
not having bought America Online when it was much cheaper.
Moreover, as television, telephones and computers all converge
into one integrated network of communications and entertainment,
companies of all sorts see portals as a possible keystone to their
future strategy. The power to funnel users to certain advertisers
and content sites is worth millions of dollars in revenue.
Disney's intention is to create a new Internet service that
combines Infoseek with its existing offerings, which include Web
sites for ABC television, ABC News, the ESPN sports network,
Disney's movies, and a site of original Disney entertainment for
children.
Disney, like many other media companies, has been talking to a
number of portal services over the last year. A few months ago, it
was close to buying a part of Excite, the No. 2 portal service, but
the deal fell apart over the price, investment bankers said.
With the stock of the search services trading at stratospheric
prices, big companies have been loath to buy them either with cash
or their own, more conventionally valued shares.
Disney's deal gets around this problem by trading some of its
own Internet ventures at the high value such companies carry for shares in Infoseek. Specifically, Disney will receive 43
percent of Infoseek in return for $70 million in cash and
relinquishing ownership of Starwave, a company that creates
elaborate Web sites.
Starwave's biggest venture is the sports site it operates on
behalf of ESPN. Disney bought Starwave in several phases over the
last year from Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft. Keith
Benjamin, an analyst for BancAmerica Robertson Stephens, estimated
that Disney paid about $400 million for Starwave and that it would
be worth about $800 million if it were an independent company.
Thursday's announcement represented something of an about-face
for Disney. When it bought full control of Starwave two months ago,
it announced plans to integrate the Seattle-based technology
company with its own Internet operations in Burbank, Calif. Now,
all of Starwave will become part of Infoseek, which has
headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., in Silicon Valley.
Disney also agreed to lend Infoseek up to $139 million over the
next five years in return for the option to bring its ownership to
50.1 percent. Disney, however, will get back most of the cash it is
spending, as Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million in advertising
from Disney over the next three years. That money will buy both
television advertising on ABC and promotion at other Disney
operations, like the Internet pavilion at Disney World.
NBC's deal to buy a stake in Snap was much more favorable to the
shareholders of Cnet, the company that owned the portal, Benjamin
said. In particular, it will provide more than $100 million in free
television advertising.
NBC, however, has much more limited ambitions for Snap, a
service with well-regarded technology and very few users. The
television network hopes that heavy TV promotions will turn Snap
into a popular, stand-alone guide service. NBC's other Internet
activities, especially its MSNBC news service operated with
Microsoft, will remain separate from Snap.
Disney, by contrast, is looking to merge its properties into a
unified service that will have more of the cohesive feel that
America Online has.
Right now, America Online charges users a $22 monthly fee for
both access to the Internet and its own content. Portal services
like Infoseek and Snap have been free to users. But Winebaum of
Disney said the company hopes to come up with extra services for
which users will pay fees. Disney's ESPN site earns half its
revenue, for example, from add-on services like fantasy sports
leagues.
Even as the big media companies are buying the existing portal
sites, many other companies of all sorts are jockeying for position
to earn money as Internet Gateways. Smaller sites that began
offering specialized services are now trying to emulate the look
and features of sites like Yahoo.
The most feared is Microsoft's Start, because it will be the
first page seen by users of the Internet Explorer browser software
that is now part of the Windows operating system. Meanwhile
Netscape, whose software business has been devastated by Microsoft,
has been trying to turn its often visited but dreary home page into
a service with as much news and information as the other portal
sites.
And Compaq Computer is even trying to turn its products into
portals by installing several buttons on its computer keyboards
that direct users to certain Web sites.
Analysts said that all these moves represent the massing of
forces for what will shape up to be a long and brutal war over
which two or three portal services will become dominant.
With the stakes in the online world far lower a few years ago,
America Online spent a $1 billion on television advertising and
distribution of sign-up disks to surge past its rivals, Prodigy and
Compuserve.
TOKYO In a few weeks Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto will
face nationwide elections as he presides over the worst recession
in more than 50 years, a limp stock market and the highest
unemployment rate since records began to be kept.
Yet experts overwhelmingly expect his governing Liberal
Democratic Party to do very well. The latest polls show it with
more than five times as much support as any other party.
Now Hashimoto is more likely than ever to do well, for President
Clinton handed him a political gift on Wednesday by agreeing to a
joint U.S.-Japanese campaign to bolster the sagging yen. Whether
the jawboning and billions of dollars in foreign-exchange
intervention succeed in propping up the yen, they will almost
certainly succeed in propping up Hashimoto.
The premise of Clinton's decision to go to Hashimoto's aid was
that Japan would take, as Clinton put it, aggressive and bold steps
that would justify a higher rate for the yen. But many analysts
here say that the Japanese political process militates against
fundamental change and that Hashimoto's relative popularity
suggests that the public wants someone like him, a repairman for
the old system rather than an architect for a new one.
To be sure, although Americans would like more, some repairs are
still crucial. One that Japanese officials are focusing on would be
for the banking system, and particularly the bad loans that
overwhelm it.
All this raises puzzling questions about the Japanese political
process. In most industrialized countries there is a built-in
corrective mechanism when an economy veers off course. Disgruntled
voters evict the old team and choose new leaders who promise to do
things differently. Yet despite eight years of economic stagnation
the Japanese political system has not responded in that way.
Certainly Japan does not have the feel of a country in a severe
downturn. There are very few homeless people, soup kitchens,
bankruptcies or vacant buildings. Although there are some
differences in measurements, the record unemployment rate in Japan
is still 4.1 percent, less than the 4.3 rate in the United States.
An old saying defines a recession as when your neighbor is laid
off. When you are laid off it is a depression. By those
definitions, for the great majority of Japanese this is still not a
recession.
The sliding yen had been a visible and humiliating signal of
Japanese economic weakness. But for now the joint U.S.-Japanese
intervention may have arrested the slide. In early Asian trading on
Friday, the yen was quoted at 137.30 to the dollar, compared to 146
before the intervention. The gulf in perceptions inside and outside
Japanese on the seriousness of the economic situation here is
difficult to exaggerate.
To Americans and many Asians these days it sometimes seems that
Japan's economy is burning and is threatening to ignite all of Asia
and, perhaps, the United States and Europe, as well. For those
fearing a global economic conflagration, nothing is more
infuriating than the sight of Hashimoto as he passively watches the
flames and seeming to do little more than blithely insisting that
the fire will eventually subside.
In a similar situation Nero fiddled, but not for eight years that is the kind of grumbling one hears from U.S. officials these
days.
To Japanese officials the foreign carping seems foolish and
petulant. Some say the U.S. government is simply nervous about its
own bubble economy and is looking for a scapegoat to blame when
stock prices inevitably collapse. And most Japanese say the risks
are exaggerated.
Moreover, many Japanese insist that their country is seriously
addressing the recession and the Asian crisis. They note that the
Japanese government has put in place a huge stimulus package, the
biggest in the nation's history, and that the government has
contributed far more to Asian bailouts than the United States.
In any case, for all the bewilderment and anger at Japan's
reluctance to do more to stimulate its economy, in Japan
Hashimoto's behavior makes some sense and appears in keeping with
the public mood. After all, he just celebrated the Liberal
Democratic Party's latest victory, on Sunday in a parliamentary
by-election.
That was the sixth consecutive victory in by-elections for the
Liberal Democrats, and polls suggest that they will also do very
well in elections for the upper house on July 12. The upper house
is much less significant than the lower house, but the election
will nonetheless be an important test of sentiment, and Hashimoto
seems ready to pass with flying colors.
A poll this week in the Yomiuri newspaper, taken just before the
intervention to support the yen, found that the support for
Hashimoto's government had dipped, from 33 to 30 percent. But
perhaps more important, 29 percent of those interviewed said they
still supported the Liberal Democrats, compared to 5.5 percent for
the leading opposition group, the Democratic Party.
The Liberal Party, which advocates precisely the far-reaching
economic reorganization and stimulus policies that Washington would
like to see in Japan, had the support of 1.7 percent.
There have been widespread hints that Mr. Hashimoto will be more
aggressive in tackling Japan's financial problems immediately after
the election. But that, too, tells something about the public mood.
Instead of promising before the election to address the economic
mess and mountain of bad bank loans, the speculation is that he
will tackle these issues only after he no longer has to face the
voters.
Morse argues that Japan suffers from cronyism and structural
economic problems quite similar to those of South Korea and
Indonesia. Those countries were bailed out by the International
Monetary Fund on the condition that they accept painful
reorganizations.
But Japan has not collapsed in the way that South Korea or
Indonesia did, so Morse said he believed that the political process
would not lead to a fundamental overhaul of the economy.
Tobacco stocks rebounded Thursday, the day after the latest
version of a tobacco-settlement bill was stubbed out like, well, a
cigarette.
Shares of Philip Morris Cos., the maker of Marlboro, rose
$1.125, to $39.5625. RJR Nabisco climbed 75 cents, to $25.0625.
Even Brooke Group, the parent of Liggett Myers that became
popular recently because of an earlier deal that freed it from tax
penalties proposed in the bill, showed some spark during trading,
though it closed down 25 cents.
Was this a sigh of relief from investors who have been on a
rough ride for the last several years? A momentary uptick in the
sagging fortunes of corporations stuck with products destined for
the ash heap of history? Or was it a long-overdue recognition of
the inherent value of companies like RJR Nabisco and Philip Morris,
regardless of the all-too-visible hand of Congress?
It may be none, or all, of the above. Certainly the biggest
worry for investors the threat of interminable litigation and
overwhelming punitive damages from the hundreds of lawsuits that
have been filed against tobacco companies remained. Without
restrictions on such lawsuits and awards, many people who might
otherwise buy into tobacco companies were staying away, not wanting
to put their money into companies whose earnings could be siphoned
off by having to make all those payments.
There are other issues that went away, more or less, along with
the bill, which was sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. One was
the spectre of higher prices for cigarettes, which some feared
would create a contraband market for them. Another was spending for
programs to reduce youth smoking, which was also a major element of
the June 20 plan.
Take a look at what would happen if Philip Morris, say, broke up
into several small companies and eliminated domestic tobacco sales
from its balance sheet. Right away, the remaining businesses international tobacco, Kraft Foods and Miller Brewing Co. would
be worth about $66 a share, Goldman estimated. Adding a
conservative valuation for domestic tobacco back in would raise the
price by about $12 a share, he said, bringing the price to $78, or
nearly twice what the stock was selling for Thursday.
Turning to RJR Nabisco, one could do the same. Goldman said the
company without its domestic tobacco business was worth about $47,
and $58 with the domestic tobacco added in.
DALLAS The cutbacks coursing through the chip industry reached
Texas Instruments Inc. on Thursday as the company announced plans
to eliminate 3,500 jobs, or 8 percent of its work force. The
company cited both the recent sale of several divisions and a weak,
glutted market for chips, especially in Asia.
The cut follows word in April that National Semiconductor was
chopping 1,400 jobs and Intel 3,000 jobs, and word in June that
Motorola was eliminating 15,000 jobs.
To further protect itself, Texas Instruments reached an
agreement Thursday to sell its computer memory-chip business to
Micron Technology Inc. for about $641 million in stock plus $190
million in debt. The deal, which was expected, will make Micron
Technology the world's largest maker of memory chips, with about 18
percent of the market, several percentage points more than Samsung.
Of the 3,500 jobs to be cut, about 2,500 will be in the United
States, including 600 from the closing of a memory-chip plant near
the company's base in Dallas. The cutback will save the company
about $270 million a year before taxes, but incentives and other
costs will roughly equal the savings over the first year. The
company anticipates some layoffs, with the number depending on how
many workers depart voluntarily.
Having already sold off military electronics and laptop-computer
divisions, Texas Instruments will remain a maker of specialized
chips, primarily those called digital signal processors, which are
used in cellular phones, computer networking equipment, cars and
computer components such as modems and hard drives. Though demand
for these chips is growing rapidly, Aylesworth said that computer
makers already had excessive inventories of components such as hard
drives.
Micron Technology plans to capitalize on its position as the
memory-chip industry's low-cost producer. To make the necessary
investments, especially in the purchased operations, Micron
Technology won an agreement to borrow $750 million from Texas
Instruments.
Texas Instruments in turn becomes Micron Technology's largest
shareholder, with about 12 percent of the company. Texas
Instruments will hold more than 16 percent if it exercises its
right to convert most of its loan into more shares.
Micron Technology also reported Thursday a third-quarter loss
that was bigger than expected. The company, which is based in
Boise, Idaho, posted a loss of $106.1 million, compared with
earnings of $96.8 million in the quarter a year earlier.
ARLINGTON, Texas Todd Van Poppel returned to the major leagues
yesterday, older than the first time and more prepared to pitch to
big-league hitters.
Van Poppel, the onetime phenom from Martin High School in
Arlington who made it to the majors with the Oakland Athletics as a
19-year-old, joined the Rangers from Triple-A Oklahoma. His
contract will be officially purchased before he starts tomorrow
night against the Angels in Anaheim.
Van Poppel likely has two chances to fill the spot on a
long-term basis. His second start will probably be Thursday in
Arizona, and Darren Oliver is due back from a stint on the disabled
list the next day. The Rangers would face a decision on whether Van
Poppel or Matt Perisho, Oliver's replacement, sticks in the
rotation.
If the Rangers decide Van Poppel isn't the answer in the
rotation, they will consider keeping him in the bullpen, and not
only because he is out of options and can't be sent back to the
minors without clearing waivers.
Van Poppel was 5-5 with a 3.72 earned-run average at Oklahoma,
and 3-0 with a 2.57 ERA in his past four starts.
Van Poppel was a first-round draft pick of the A's in 1990 after
a stellar career at Martin High. He made it to the majors in
September '91, and struck out five of the first six big-league
batters he faced.
But after 3 1/2 years in the majors, including stints with four
organizations and with a 20-33 record and 6.22 ERA, he was released
by the Kansas City Royals.
The Rangers signed him to a minor-league deal in June 1997, and
sent him to Class A to start again.
The Rangers simplified his mechanics, and this year he began to
throw a slider for the first time. He began getting hitters out
consistently, earning another chance in the majors.
NEW YORK Chinese authorities in Shanghai on Thursday detained
the shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera that
is scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln Center
Festival, threatening to disrupt the New York event and start an
international incident.
When the criticisms first emerged this week, Lincoln Center
informally asked the State Department and the U.S. Information
Agency to follow the situation. After Thursday's action, in which
the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Culture refused permission for
sets from the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Company to leave the airport,
the State Department intervened.
At the same time, Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln
Center, sought help from Henry Kissinger, the former secretary of
state, who is a friend of hers. Because the production is scheduled
to move on to the Festival d'Automne in Paris in November, the
French Foreign Ministry has also become involved.
An American official who spoke on the condition of anonymity
said that it was not clear whether the Chinese government, which is
preparing for a visit by President Clinton next week, had played
any part in the matter.
The shipment in question, consisting of all the sets, props and
costumes for the production, was ostensibly held back for an
inspection of the contents, according to Lincoln Center officials.
The authorities allowed the containers to be reclosed, Redden
said, adding that he hoped they would be shipped on the next
available flight, on Sunday. But he said the authorities still had
objections to the production that could pose further problems.
WASHINGTON With Democrats maintaining that the Republican
leadership was once again trying to delay any final vote on
campaign finance, the House voted Thursday to open the debate to a
blizzard of amendments.
The procedure rare in a House that is usually controlled
tightly to allow only limited debate and a handful of amendments was approved on a near-party-line vote, 221-189. Republican
proponents of overhauling campaign finance law stood with their
party after receiving assurances from the House Majority Leader
Dick Armey that the issue would be brought to a final vote by the
time the House takes its August recess.
From the other side of the aisle, Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, the
majority whip, an opponent of the overhaul effort, mocked the
complaints.
It was just another moment in the odyssey of campaign finance
overhaul, an issue that has unexpectedly refused to die this year
despite the concerted efforts of Republican leaders in both houses
to block any changes that would erode their party's fund-raising
advantage.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich tried to dispense with the matter in
March under rules that never allowed the main, bipartisan overhaul
bill to the floor. But the speaker's tactic boomeranged
politically, giving the overhaul effort new momentum.
Next he promised that the issue would come up in May.
Technically it did for several hours of debate and with no votes.
Since then, the House has been meandering through a thicket of
campaign finance proposals, usually at night.
Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., attributed the demise of
anti-smoking legislation in the Senate to the tobacco industry's
campaign contributions to the Republican Party.
She went on to quote from a Wall Street Journal article about
Rep. Linda Smith, R-Wash., who is running for the Senate. In that
article, Ms. Smith, first elected to the House in 1994, said she
had quickly discovered that it was common practice for Republican
leaders to hold up action on bills while seeking more donations
from interested contributors.
Probable starting pitchers: Tonight RHP Kevin Millwood (9-2,
3.73 ERA; 1-0, 1.00 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. RHP Shawn Boskie (0-0,
0.00; 1-4, 4.50 lifetime vs. Braves). Saturday RHP John Smoltz
(4-1, 3.94; 10-6. 2.56 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. LHP Carlos Perez
(6-5, 3.64; 2-3, 2.98 lifetime vs. Braves). Sunday LHP Denny
Neagle (8-4, 3.18; 5-6, 3.96 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. RHP Dustin
Hermanson (4-6, 3.20; 0-2, 5.40 lifetime vs. Braves).Past meetings:
The Braves have taken 2-of-3 from the Expos twice this season at
Turner Field.
Quickly: Tuesday, the Expos optioned right-hander Mike Johnson
to Ottawa and called up veteran Shawn Boskie, who spent last season
with the Cubs, Phillies and Mariners. Johnson was pounded in
Atlanta in his last outing Saturday, giving up eight hits and seven
earned runs in just three innings. . . . The Expos are the
weakest-hitting team in the majors, with a .243 average and just
221 RBIs. Only Cincinnati fields worse than Montreal, which has a
.975 fielding percentage and 67 errors.
Who's hot: Guerrero leads the club in batting, runs and hits. In
his last 14 games, he's batting .345 (20-for-58) with six doubles,
three homers and 11 RBIs.
Who's not: Rookie Vazquez (1-6, 6.00) had lost his last four
decisions and had not won in eight starts (four no-decisions) since
May 1 entering Thursday night's start against the Mets.
Didn't make any difference Thursday at The Ted. Klesko's bat
remains ablaze, but a fourth-inning base-running error, which he
later second-guessed, played a part in the Braves' 3-2 loss to the
Florida Marlins.
Down 2-1, the Braves started the fourth inning with three
straight singles, off the bats of Andres Galarraga, Klesko and Javy
Lopez. Lopez's single up the middle scored Galarraga to tie the
score.
Klesko's aggressiveness, however, caused him to stumble over the
base and fall. When he reached back for third, Florida's Todd Zeile
had his glove and the ball there to meet his fingers.
After the game, Klesko sounded as if he wanted to find a spot
there himself.
He didn't. Lopez's single, the third in a row of the inning,
also was the last of the inning. Michael Tucker followed by forcing
Lopez out at second, and Andruw Jones hit a weak grounder to first
to end the inning.
After Klesko's faux pas, only two more Braves got as far as
second base. And the Marlins' pitchers hushed all possibilities of
another score.
Klesko is batting .418 (18-for-43) with four homers and 13 RBIs
during his hot stretch. But the blunder?
SAN FRANCISCO -- It seemed the sensible thing to do. In the
first place, picking out a player to follow the first round of a
golf tournament is a crapshoot. The chance of picking the player
who might take the lead is even more uncertain than trying to pick
the winner. This U.S. Open started out with 7,117 applications, and
another 136 came in late, out of which 156 would eventually make
the field.
Sixty-seven are exempt. The rest have to go through qualifying.
Larry Mize missed by a stroke. Fred Funk didn't make it. Trevor
Dodds and Steve Pate, Tour winners, had to survive playoffs. Craig
Stadler and Bruce Lietzke refuse to try any longer.
You decide the wise thing to do is pick a guy with a local
background and see how it works out. Stewart Cink has done well in
the U.S. Open, no worse than 16th place, which in 1996 won an
invitation to the Masters. He was paired with Fuzzy Zoeller,
another pleasant fellow to watch, and Retief Goosen, a young South
African who is beginning to make his home on the European Tour.
Cink and Zoeller both birdie the first hole, Cink out of the
heavy stuff twice. Cink goes 2-under par with a birdie on the 5th
hole and follows that with another from about 15 feet on the 6th.
This is looking good. The early leader board is looking good.
Woods, Couples, Montgomerie, Daly and Verplank are up there.
Some of those little one-person carts are trying to making it
around the course. This course isn't friendly to such unstable
toys. You look down from the clubhouse, across the fairways cut
through the huge cypress and pines, the championship course at The
Olympic Club looks like the Grand Canyon of golf. One senior almost
toppled and complained that his sciatica was killing him. My wife
gave him two Advil and told him to call his doctor in the morning.
Word just flashed on the board that Tiger Woods had doubled the
shortest hole on the course. It's 137 yards up the hill toward the
clubhouse, No. 8. He later four-putted another hole and soon was
off the board. Cink was now leading the tournament, the same Cink
who had twice beaten Woods while they were in college.
He was 3-under, soon to be joined by a guy playing just ahead of
him, Ted Oh, a 21-year-old Korean from Las Vegas, who shares Butch
Harmon, the professor, with Woods. This was really looking good
now.
Well, the ninth hole rose up and bit Cink. More to the point,
Cink bit himself with a tee shot in the deep spinach. He could only
pitch out and settle for his first bogey. He made the turn two
under par, but Cink's flirtation with the lead was done for the
day. He bogeyed the 11th from the rough, but hell struck on the
16th, 609 yards long, par-5. He left it the rough twice, missed the
green, then two-putted. Double bogey.
Tom Watson had predicted that the winning score will be over
par. That being the case, Payne Stewart was looking pretty good at
66. He had made his score on the tough holes, 16, 17 and 18, and
probably no player would birdie would birdie the last two holes all
week. As for Cink, he wouldn't even be low Yellow Jacket. That
would be the kid, amateur Matt Kuchar, coming in at even par, still
on his Masters games, flashing his old Masters smile.
 VIAGRA After anguishing for weeks over how to cope with Viagra
mania, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's biggest HMO, will announce
today plans to exclude coverage of the hit blue pill for male
impotence. By Carl Hall
 INFOSEEK Tomorrowland got a whole new meaning yesterday when
Walt Disney Co. agreed to acquire 43 percent of Infoseek Corp., a
leading Internet search and directory service based in Sunnyvale.
By David Einstein
 PCEXPO Godzilla made a repeat visit to New York this week in
the form of Microsoft, which stomped into town to take over the big
PC Expo trade show. By David Einstein
In addition, the HMO's new national policy will apply to other
prescription treatments for erectile dysfunction, including
suppositories and pills not yet on the market.
The decision was reached after an unprecedented national policy
review that had a team of physicians, ethicists and pharmacists
delving into such issues as the medical necessity for erections and
the dangers of recreational use of pills like Viagra.
A stunning 2 million prescriptions have been written for Pfizer
Inc.'s Viagra since it was approved by the Food and Drug
Administration in April making Viagra the most successful new
pharmaceutical on record.
It's become a staple of late-night talk-show banter, and it's so
easy to purchase that one can order it over the Internet. But it's
expensive selling wholesale for $7 a pill, retail for about $9 or
$10.
In the last analysis, though, economic factors, as opposed to
medical issues, decided the question for Kaiser. Even if users were
limited to 10 pills a month, the HMO estimated that the cost would
exceed $100 million a year.
By comparison, Kaiser dispensed only $59 million worth of
anti-virals last year, a category that includes all the protease
inhibitors and other expensive drugs used to fight AIDS.
Kaiser's decision overrules some regional decisionmakers who had
hoped the HMO would provide at least limited coverage to help
certain patients.
Several other HMOs have adopted rules limiting Viagra coverage
to six pills or so each month. About half of state-run Medicaid
programs provide Viagra benefits. Standard Medicare coverage
doesn't include any self-administered drugs, although some HMO
plans have been extending Viagra benefits that generally match
what's being offered through commercial plans.
Viagra is the only FDA-approved pill affected by the new Kaiser
policy. But at least two other potential impotence treatments,
considered to be a year or two away from the FDA-approval stage,
also will be excluded, along with the so-called Muse suppository,
Kaiser officials said.
The policy will take full effect when standard HMO contracts
come up for renewal, generally the first of the year. Employers and
other health-plan purchasers would have to buy an optional
supplemental benefit plan if they want Kaiser to provide the
coverage anyway.
Kaiser doctors may continue to write prescriptions for Viagra,
and the drug will be available in the HMO's pharmacies. But the
standard $5 co-payment will not cover the cost.
In Northern California, where Kaiser provides HMO coverage to
roughly 2.7 million people, or 1 of every 3 insured residents,
Viagra has never made its way onto the list of reimbursed
medications.
She said excluding Viagra is inconsistent with policies that pay
for such things as seasonal allergy medications that also improve
quality of life, even if they don't treat life-threatening
conditions.
Patients and advocates specializing in erectile dysfunction
roundly condemned Kaiser's decision, calling it a misguided slap
against those who want erection problems treated as a disease
rather than a joke.
Shapiro said taking the pill helped him regain not only full
sexual function but also helped him fight bouts of depression.
Betsy Imholz, senior attorney for Consumers Union in San
Francisco, noted that Kaiser will pay for office treatments and
surgery for erection problems.
But some top medical experts took Kaiser's side, maintaining
that all HMO members should not have to bear the cost of the sexual
activities of a few men.
Editors at print publications shuddered when Internet-based news
organizations like Cnet, Salon and Motley Fool began to crop up in
1996.
The new media business isn't as profitable as its proponents had
hoped. That has led many online ventures to peddle their content to
newspapers and magazines in an effort to attract more readers and
eventually more advertisers.
Syndicated online content reaches 10 times more readers in print
than on the Web, even though some publications are hesitant to
carry content from online rivals.
Though syndication fees are nominal as little as $50 a week
for a package of news and features the potential payoff is
significant for online news operations. Newspaper syndication helps
Web sites build brand-name recognition, reach a broader audience
and pocket some cash in the process.
 Motley Fool, an irreverent financial tip sheet on America
Online and the Web, is the king of new-meets-old media syndication.
It is distributed by Universal Press Syndicate in 136 newspapers among them the Los Angeles Times, Chicago Sun-Times, Philadelphia
Inquirer and Detroit Free Press. It is also carried on radio and in
books.
 Salon, an online magazine, offers a weekly package of columns
and features through New York syndication giant United Features.
About 30 North American newspapers carry it, including the New York
Daily News, Hartford Courant and Toronto Globe and Mail.
But it's a two-way street. Most newspapers and magazines post
stories on their own Web sites. And media giants like Walt Disney
and NBC are snapping up online ventures.
Despite all the breathless hype about the Internet, it hasn't
significantly changed Americans' news-reading habits. Many still
rely heavily on their local paper and TV for news, according to a
recent national study by Pew Research Center.
The deal which probably will involve the issuance of
Cornerstone securities to Wilson's owners is expected to be
sealed over the weekend and officially announced early next week.
The lion's share of the proceeds will go to principal owner and
founder Bill Wilson, a Stanford graduate whose real-estate
associates have included the Rockefeller family, Yale University,
pension funds and various private partnerships.
It owns more than 11 million square feet of office space
throughout California, including substantial holdings in San
Francisco and on the Peninsula. It also has properties in the
Pacific Northwest.
The firm built the architecturally striking Oracle Corp.
headquarters complex in Redwood Shores and owns a building occupied
by Gap Inc. in San Mateo. It also owns San Mateo's Borel Office
Center, a multitenant, four-building complex.
Last year, it bought the Equitable Life Building at 120
Montgomery St. in San Francisco in a deal reportedly worth $70 million.
Wilson and Cornerstone which also owns about 11 million square
feet of office space combined with Gap Chairman Donald Fisher
this year in an unsuccessful bid for San Francisco's 3.76
million-square-foot Embarcadero Center.
Sources said Cornerstone, which specializes in office properties
in prime metropolitan areas, views Wilson as a more-than-acceptable
consolation prize in its effort to establish a major foothold in
the booming Bay Area office market.
For Bill Wilson, now is the ideal time to sell, says James F.
Wilson (no relation), an analyst with Jefferies Co. in San
Francisco.
After opening at $45.50, Tekelec shares lost as much as $5,
before regaining some ground to close down $4.875 at $40.625. More
than 1 million shares traded hands, nearly four times the issue's
six-month average daily volume.
Thursday's drop came a day after Tekelec officials finished a
road show to New York and Boston to introduce analysts and
investors to the firm's new chief executive officer, Michael
Margolis. Margolis replaced retiring CEO Allan Toomer in February.
Among the issues on which Margolis was queried by investors was
Tekelec's second quarter book-to-bill ratio, a figure that compares
the dollar amount of new orders coming in to existing orders
shipped over a given period. A ratio of 1 means that the amounts
are equal and implies a steady stream of business.
Several analysts have predicted the company's book-to-bill ratio
will drop below 1 for the quarter, though Tekelec has said it
should go down no further than 0.9. That would mean Tekelec is not
getting as many new orders as it's currently filling.
Kevin Slocum, an analyst at SoundView Financial Group, said he
blamed his own comments in part on Tekelec's Thursday dip. In a
daily report published by First Call Corp. and distributed to
analysts and investors, Slocum said some investors were disturbed
by the company's likely ratio. But in an interview Thursday
afternoon, Slocum said he personally is unconcerned by the figure.
Tekelec manufactures and services diagnostic testing equipment
for large computer networks, and network switching equipment used
in the telecommunications industry. The company had 1997 revenues
of $125.2 million and has, as of Thursday's close, a market
capitalization of $1.08 billion. 
It was like listening to a TV evangelist. Let industry standards
into your life, the preacher says, and they'll guide you to
deliverance (not to mention big revenues).
Microsoft held a Hollywood-style party Tuesday night near
Lincoln Center to preview the next version of its Office suite,
called Office 2000. (Obviously, it isn't coming out any time soon.)
Office, in case you don't know, is the software package that
includes Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint. All will be integrated
so closely with the Web, they'll make Kentucky cousins look like
distinct family lines.
For example, you'll be able to drag elements of a database and
spreadsheet into a Word document and save the finished product in
HTML (the language of the Web) directly to your company's Intranet.
And that's not all. Because the applications are linked, when you
update information in the original document, it also updates
automatically on the Web page.
PowerPoint, which is used to create slide shows, is perhaps the
most insidious piece of software ever written. Anyone who has had
to sit through a PowerPoint presentation knows what I mean. There's
a slide on the wall, and the guy with the microphone repeats the
information on the slide. This goes on for 20 or 30 slides. Then
they give you a hard copy of the slide show to take home with you.
Anyway, it's going to be easier to use. For instance, the size
of the type automatically will adjust to fit the screen as you add
information to a slide.
You have to tip your hat to Jean-Louis Gassee. The former
president of Apple's product division is still out there on the
show floor, flogging his company, Be Inc. At first, Be was an
alternate PC-maker with its own operating system. That didn't work.
Then, Gassee reportedly almost sold Be to Apple when it was fishing
around for a new OS for the Macintosh. But Apple bought Steve Jobs'
NeXT instead.
Be actually could have a chance in this new multimedia niche,
especially because the latest version of the Be OS works with
Intel-based computers. (In the past, it was designed only for
PowerPC chips.) You can download the Intel-compatible version of
the Be OS directly from Be's Web site (www.be.com). It costs $79.
Investors apparently like Be's prospects, as evidenced by the
$24.4 million that Gassee raised in financing during the first
quarter of this year.
Gassee admitted that he should have tied his flag to Intel years
ago. But I guess that's hard for an ex-Apple guy to do.
Earlier this month, NBC announced a similar but smaller deal,
acquiring a 5 percent stake in San Francisco's Cnet with the idea
of eventually taking over its fledgling Web directory service,
called Snap.
Under terms of yesterday's agreement, Disney will receive 25.8
million shares of newly issued Infoseek stock in return for $70
million in cash plus ownership of Starwave, a Disney subsidiary
that creates and manages Web sites for other companies.
Disney also will plunk down $139 million for warrants that will
enable it to amass a majority interest in Infoseek over the next
three years. In the meantime, Disney will get three out of eight
seats on Infoseek's board of directors.
As part of the deal, Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million in
promotional support from Disney over the next five years.
News of the agreement, which had been rumored since the start of
this week, caused Internet stocks to surge in early trading. But by
day's end, concerns over the structure of the deal had damped down
the enthusiasm of investors. Infoseek closed just 63 cents higher
at $35.13, while Disney fell $2.30 to $112.
Analyst Keith Benjamin of San Francisco's Robertson Stephens
said the expenses associated with the deal, including the $165
million, will probably mean that Infoseek, which has never posted a
profit, won't make money until 2001.
Disney and Infoseek officials said they will launch a portal
service later this year combining Starwave's technology with the
best from their existing services. The site, which will retain the
Infoseek name, will feature ABC.com, ABCNEWS.com, Disney.com,
ESPN.com and the official sites of the National Football League,
the National Basketball Association and NASCAR.
Infoseek is the third most popular search and directory service
behind Excite and top-ranked Yahoo. With Disney on board, Infoseek
officials hope to improve that position.
One potential problem for Infoseek is that yesterday's agreement
does not give it exclusive rights to Disney content. Disney also
provides material to other sites, including Excite and America
Online.
Infoseek said it will buy up the 3.1 million shares of Starwave
not owned by Disney, giving it complete control of the privately
owned Bellevue, Wash., company formerly controlled by Microsoft
founder Paul Allen.
The satellite, originally called Asiasat 3, was launched last
December to provide television and telephone service in Asia. But
the Russian-built launcher malfunctioned, leaving the satellite in
an unusable orbit. The satellite was declared a loss, and its
owner, a company based in Hong Kong, received a $200 million
insurance settlement.
Hughes took possession of what looked to be an expensive piece
of space junk. In April it began the seemingly improbably salvage
mission to send the satellite around the Moon, some 240,000 miles
away, and back to an Earth orbit.
The idea was to have the Moon's gravity provide some of the
energy needed to correct the satellite's orbit, which was inclined
at 51 degrees to the Equator. An ideal orbit would be directly over
the Equator.
In fact, Hughes ended up sending the satellite around the Moon a
second time, something it had not initially planned, to achieve an
even finer correction in the orbit.
On Wednesday the satellite entered a geosynchronous orbit,
22,300 miles above Earth. At that altitude, a satellite orbits
Earth at the same speed that the planet rotates. Thus it appears to
hover over a single spot in the sky, making it easy to communicate
with antennas on Earth.
The orbit is still slightly inclined to the Equator, however.
Hughes will be able to keep the satellite at a fixed longitude but,
when viewed from Earth, it will drift a few degrees north and south
of the Equator every day.
Because it is not perfectly stationary in the sky, the satellite
cannot be used for certain jobs, such as directly broadcasting
television signals to small home dishes. So Hughes will now face
another challenge: finding a customer or customers to lease or buy
the satellite. The original customer will not take it back.
Skidmore said Hughes had received many inquiries. He said many
satellite users, like ships and cable television companies, have
antennas that can track a satellite as it moves in the sky.
The satellite, which is now parked over the Pacific Ocean, has
enough fuel left to move to a designated longitude and to operate
for 10 to 15 years, Skidmore said. Hughes will split any proceeds
with the insurance companies that paid off the initial loss.
Renee Gentry, an analyst with the Teal Group, an aerospace
consulting firm in Fairfax, Va., said that although there is a
strong demand for new satellites, most big companies have their own
satellites ordered or in use.
Then look no further than the next blue-chip professional
services concern that wants to go public before the punch bowl gets
taken away.
Korn/Ferry International, the formidable head-hunting firm based
in Los Angeles, is expected to file for an initial public stock
offering sometime this year, a source close to the company says.
If the company follows through, the headhunter's IPO would flash
yet another signal that the suits on Wall Street are starting to
believe the stock market has reached its peak. And that means it's
time for Korn/Ferry's partners to cash in some of their equity.
They seem to be saying that the never-say-die bull-run of the '90s
finally may be losing steam (as if Monday's 207-point drop in the
Dow Jones industrial average wasn't portentous enough to remind
them).
Of course, Goldman Sachs' recent decision to go public is widely
viewed as an omen that all good things must (and probably will)
come to an end.
After all, when the nation's most prestigious investment bankers
decide that it's time to cash out while the getting is still good,
who's to doubt them? They are the pros from Dover, who have advised
scores of corporations across the globe on how and when to raise
mountains of dough in the public market.
What's more, a Korn/Ferry IPO would come on the heels of an
initial stock offering by one of its foremost executive-search
competitors, Heidrick Struggles of Chicago. Heidrick reportedly
plans to allow its partners to cash in some of their chips by
selling a minority stake to the public in the fall.
And who is likely to underwrite the Heidrick offering? Why
Goldman, of course. (Telephone calls to Heidrick executives were
not returned.)
To be sure, investors may have good reason to take stock in the
nation's largest executive-search firm. The 29-year-old company
racked up $313 million in revenues in the fiscal year ended April
30. It boasts a client list of 3,000 companies that are served by
70 offices worldwide, and the firm employs more than 1,300 people.
Yup. Internet. The magic word in the investment world. And we're
not talking some kind of would-be Zapata here. Korn/ Ferry has
teamed with Dow Jones' Wall Street Journal to form Futurestep, an
Internet-based executive-search service geared toward mid-sized
companies.
In fact, much of the incentive for a public offering is being
driven by Korn/Ferry's desire to raise money to fund Futurestep.
Korn/ Ferry has a majority stake in the startup, which is
headquartered in the L.A. suburb of Sherman Oaks.
Dow Jones isn't pumping any of its own capital into the venture
and doesn't have an equity stake. But its partnership with Korn/
Ferry allows Wall Street Journal advertisers exclusive access to
various Futurestep services, such as job-candidate screening and
responding to job applicants. In turn, Korn/Ferry gets access to
the Journal's hefty classified-ad base.
Question is, will Web-obsessed investors still be lured by the
Internet sizzle if the IPO market starts to chill?
On the day that search engine also-ran Infoseek sold a hefty
stake to the Mouse (Walt Disney), leading search engine Yahoo
reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission that it plans to
take a $45 million charge during the second quarter.
Hats off to Bebe chief executive Manny Moushouf. After being
priced at $11 a share, his company's newly minted public shares
closed their first day of trading Wednesday at more than $13. And
the Brisbane clothing retailer kept its momentum yesterday, inching
up another 31 cents a share amid tepid waters for new offerings.
 Mark Veverka can be reached by mail at The Chronicle, 901 Mission
St., San Francisco 94103, by phone at (415) 777-8444 or by e-mail
at mveverka(at sign)sfgate.com. 
EDS. NOTE: The Boston Globe is planning to move a spot news
story on the columnist and the last column by Patricia Smith for
use by New York Times News Service clients. For questions, call
Frank Perrotta at the Globe, (617) 929-2597.
 c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO John Daly was asked about one particular shot on
the fourth hole, out of the rough, which according to U.S. Open
rules, or at least to sadistic tradition, must be deep enough to
hide a Buick. He chopped at the undergrowth like a man cutting
sugar cane and wound up leaving his ball pin-high on the green for
an easy par.
Martin, of course, is the disabled golfer who has become the
cause celebre for handicapped athletes and citizens from all walks
of life for his legal duel with the PGA Tour for the right to use a
golf cart in tournaments.
So much of the first-day carnival at the Olympic Club had
entered on Martin, who had qualified for the 98th U.S. Open by
winning a regional playoff and teed off late in the afternoon
followed by a large gallery of well-wishers and the kind of media
horde that usually trails the scent of presidential scandal.
A dispute with the U.S. Golf Association over the size of the
cart he would be permitted to use had been resolved and now so much
of the golfing world wanted to watch the gritty young man with the
rare circulatory disorder in his right leg, which makes walking
extremely painful, take his own kind of giant steps into battle.
But there are handicaps and there are handicaps, and several
hours earlier, it was Daly, who has wrestled with his own share of
adversity, rolling in a par putt on No. 18 to finish at 1 under for
a first round that was stunning from several perspectives.
First, this is a course that requires accuracy far more than
brute strength and the grip-it-and-rip-it Daly toured the grounds
without even carrying a driver in his bag. Second, it was just a
year ago at Congressional Country Club for the 97th Open that an
angry, troubled Daly stalked off the course in the middle of the
second round, leaving his playing partners wondering what had
happened and eventually wound up making a return trip to the Betty
Ford Clinic.
It was the latest chapter in the peaks-and-valleys saga of Daly,
who burst onto the scene by winning the 1991 PGA Championship at
Crooked Stick in Indiana, won the British Open in 1995 and became
one of the most popular figures in the game all while fighting a
long-running battle with alcohol.
The big, powerful swing, the awesome club-head speed and the
long drives are one reason that Daly quickly became so popular with
Middle America. But maybe another reason is that he really
represents Middle America more than all of those pretty
flat-bellied boys who win golf tournaments. Here is Daly, with an
expanding waistline and a golf bag full of personal demons, who
doesn't look as though the world is sitting there on a silver tray
for him.
So the strongman played the round with a 3-wood instead of his
driver. He stayed within the fairways and within himself. He didn't
crack under the weight of three bogeys on the front nine. He
gathered himself to shoot 32 on the back nine. Just as he didn't
crack back in March when he posted an 18 on one hole at The Players
Championship.
Daly's 69 was his lowest first-round score in nine trips to the
the Open, and he finds himself right in the hunt. Which is only
appropriate, since the main road that brings you to the Olympic
Club is John Daly Boulevard and the town of Daly City is just a,
well, John Daly tee shot over the horizon.
The deal which probably will involve the issuance of
Cornerstone securities to Wilson's owners is expected to be
sealed over the weekend and officially announced early next week.
The lion's share of the proceeds will go to principal owner and
founder Bill Wilson, a Stanford graduate whose real-estate
associates have included the Rockefeller family, Yale University,
pension funds and various private partnerships.
It owns more than 11 million square feet of office space
throughout California, including substantial holdings in San
Francisco and on the Peninsula. It also has properties in the
Pacific Northwest.
The firm built the architecturally striking Oracle Corp.
headquarters complex in Redwood Shores and owns a building occupied
by Gap Inc. in San Mateo. It also owns San Mateo's Borel Office
Center, a multitenant, four-building complex.
Last year, it bought the Equitable Life Building at 120
Montgomery St. in San Francisco in a deal reportedly worth $70 million.
Wilson and Cornerstone which also owns about 11 million square
feet of office space combined with Gap Chairman Donald Fisher
this year in an unsuccessful bid for San Francisco's 3.76
million-square-foot Embarcadero Center.
Sources said Cornerstone, which specializes in office properties
in prime metropolitan areas, views Wilson as a more-than-acceptable
consolation prize in its effort to establish a major foothold in
the booming Bay Area office market.
For Bill Wilson, now is the ideal time to sell, says James F.
Wilson (no relation), an analyst with Jefferies Co. in San
Francisco.
A columnist at the Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,
fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this year
and the newspaper has asked for her resignation, the Globe
announced Thursday.
In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a woman
dying of cancer, the newspaper said.
Ms. Smith did not return messages left on her voice mail at work
and her home telephone was out of service. Her attorney, Ike
Williams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not return
voice mail messages.
This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that her
credibility has come under fire. As an editorial assistant at the
Chicago Sun Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of a
concert that she had not attended. The newspaper ran a correction
but she was not dismissed.
The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after the New
Republic published the results of an investigation into the work of
Stephen Glass, one of its staff writers, whom it said had
fabricated parts or all of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote in two
and a half years.
The Globe, which is owned by the New York Times Co., said
Friday's paper would also include a news article about the
incident.
The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeks
ago in the normal course of monitoring by senior editors. Under the
monitoring system, which Storin said he established two and a half
years ago, editors occasionally double check columnists' sources.
Richard Gulla, a spokesman for the Globe, said he did not know
whether other people in that article, such as Ms. Gibson's daughter
Carolyn were fabricated.
Ms. Smith also acknowledged making up Jim Burke, a worker
erecting barricades at the marathon, in her column of April 20th;
and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name, the
subject of an entire poignant column about a woman with cancer,
published on May 11.
Ms. Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at the
Chicago Daily News, joined the Globe in 1990. She has been writing
a column for the Metro/Region section since 1994. Earlier this
year, she won an award from the American Society of Newspaper
Editors for a series of her columns published in 1997. She was also
nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year. A poet,
she has been widely recognized in the Boston arts community for her
public readings.
The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after being
questioned by Moore. Storin said the Globe initially had questions
about six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted to fabrications in
four of them.
In a noontime meeting Thursday, Storin and Taylor told the news
staff of their request for Ms. Smith's resignation.
A columnist at the Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,
fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this year
and the newspaper has asked for her resignation, the Globe
announced Thursday.
In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a woman
dying of cancer, the newspaper said.
Ms. Smith did not return messages left on her voice mail at work
and her home telephone was out of service. Her attorney, Ike
Williams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not return
voice mail messages.
This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that her
credibility has come under fire. As an editorial assistant at the
Chicago Sun Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of a
concert that she had not attended. The newspaper ran a correction
but she was not dismissed.
The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after the New
Republic published the results of an investigation into the work of
Stephen Glass, one of its staff writers, whom it said had
fabricated parts or all of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote in two
and a half years.
The Globe, which is owned by the New York Times Co., said
Friday's paper would also include a news article about the
incident.
The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeks
ago in the normal course of monitoring by senior editors. Under the
monitoring system, which Storin said he established two and a half
years ago, editors occasionally double check columnists' sources.
Richard Gulla, a spokesman for the Globe, said he did not know
whether other people in that article, such as Ms. Gibson's daughter
Carolyn were fabricated.
Ms. Smith also acknowledged making up Jim Burke, a worker
erecting barricades at the marathon, in her column of April 20th;
and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name, the
subject of an entire poignant column about a woman with cancer,
published on May 11.
Ms. Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at the
Chicago Daily News, joined the Globe in 1990. She has been writing
a column for the Metro/Region section since 1994. Earlier this
year, she won an award from the American Society of Newspaper
Editors for a series of her columns published in 1997. She was also
nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year. A poet,
she has been widely recognized in the Boston arts community for her
public readings.
The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after being
questioned by Moore. Storin said the Globe initially had questions
about six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted to fabrications in
four of them.
In a noontime meeting Thursday, Storin and Taylor told the news
staff of their request for Ms. Smith's resignation.
TOKYO The South Korean government officially decreed 55
troubled companies nonviable Thursday, signaling their likely
demise in hopes of accelerating the revamping of the economy and
ailing financial system.
To some critics, the list also closely resembled the
heavy-handed tactics used by governments past to guide the economy.
Those tactics are also blamed for creating the mountain of debt and
system of crony capitalism that has contributed to South Korea's
problems.
The list was compiled with the assistance of South Korea's
debt-laden banks after a review of 313 troubled companies. It is
aimed at restoring health to the financial system and accelerating
the reorganization in the country's heavily leveraged corporate
sector, which has been slow to pursue change.
The list includes 20 companies that are part of the country's
five largest chaebol Samsung group, LG group, Hyundai group,
Daewoo group and SK group. The commission sent an earlier list back
to the banks because it did not include chaebol subsidiaries.
But only one of the Big Five affiliates on the list Hyundai
Livart Co., a furniture manufacturer is listed on the Korean
stock exchange. The ax will fall largely on small, virtually
unknown subsidiaries.
Lee of the supervisory commission said companies on the list had
little chance of survival because banks and affiliates cannot lend
them money. However, the companies can sell off most of their
assets to survive or can seek merger partners. They also can seek
bankruptcy court protection, although banks are highly unlikely to
agree to such conditions.
The list includes 10 publicly traded companies, and their shares
tumbled before the official announcement was made. The Korea stock
exchange suspended their shares after the announcement, including
Korea Tungsten, Haitai Stores, Haitai Electronics, Haitai
Confectionery, Hanil Synthetic Fiber, Dai Han Wool Textile, Tong
Kook General Electronics, Shinho Electric and Communications and
Young Jin Co.
Under the leadership of the new president, Kim Dae-jung, the
government has promised to allow market forces to steer the
economy, but the commission's list, dictating the life and death of
scores of companies, seemed to contradict that commitment.
There were some notable absences from the group marked for
extinction. Samsung Motors, a new car manufacturing unit of the
Samsung group, for instance, is clearly not financially viable at
the moment.
Launched this spring after the Asian financial crisis turned the
South Korean economic miracle into a bust, the car company cost
$4.8 billion to put together and must compete with already
established contenders like Hyundai, Daewoo and bankrupt Kia Motors
in a domestic market now less than half the size of a year ago.
Planning to produce just 80,000 cars this year, the company is not
even close to breaking even.
The aim of the big deal is to push the chaebol into
consolidation by forcing them to swap businesses with each other.
Hyundai Motors, for example, could adopt Samsung Motors in exchange
for its semiconductor business, which could be absorbed by Samsung
Electronics, one of the world's largest makers of semiconductors.
Lee, the commission's chairman, said the top five conglomerates
were to come up with revised business plans by the end of July that
would hopefully involve such deals.
Bankers said the list issued Thursday was problematic for those
chaebol that have already begun efforts to sell subsidiaries now
fingered for extermination. The Hanwha group would have liked to
put all or part of the Otron Co., a mobile telephone handset
manufacturer that is on the list, on the block, but now any
disposal would probably be a fire sale.
The list also is likely to worsen unemployment, which has
already hit more than 1.5 million people this year. While several
chaebol said Thursday that they would try to find jobs for workers
from companies on the list, it will be hard to absorb all of them.
HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. For more than a decade, Michael
Laudor had wrestled with the demons of schizophrenia, managing to
eke out startling victories over the delusions and hallucinations,
like a degree from Yale Law School and more than $2.1 million in
book and movie contracts for his life story.
But Thursday the disease seemed to have snatched its own brutal
victory. Laudor was charged with the murder of his 37-year-old
pregnant fiancee, Caroline Costello, a technology administrator at
the Edison Project, the private firm that manages public schools.
Wednesday, her body, with more than 10 stab wounds in the back
and neck, had been found in the kitchen of the apartment they
shared on the banks of the Hudson in this suburban village, which
had not seen a murder in 20 years.
A short time before the body was found, Laudor's mother, Ruth,
concerned about a conversation she had had with her son, had called
police and asked them to check on the welfare of her son and Ms.
Costello in the apartment.
Laudor, 35, was arrested at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.,
a place where, as a teen-ager, he had taken a summer program for
gifted students. For inexplicable reasons, he had fled to Cornell
on Wednesday afternoon, driving Ms. Costello's black Honda to
Binghamton and then catching the 10:15 p.m. Shortline bus to
Ithaca.
At Cornell, he flagged down a patrol car and told an officer
that he had hurt his girlfriend and possibly killed her, said
Simeon Moss, director of the Cornell News Service.
Taken into custody, he was alternately calm and agitated and, at
one point, struck a Cornell police officer, who was be treated at a
local hospital.
Thursday afternoon, Laudor, a tall, husky, bearded six-footer
dressed in a blue Ithaca City Jail jumpsuit and bedroom slippers,
was returned to the Hastings police station, next door to where he
lived and visible from his balcony. There, he was formally charged
with Ms. Costello's murder. He had no prior record for violence.
Friends spoke of two setbacks that seemed to weaken him in his
fight against schizophrenia. In 1995, his father, Charles Laudor,
an Adelphi economics professor who often talked him through the
hallucinations and was a stabilizing influence in his life, died of
prostate cancer. In recent months, the antipsychotic medications he
had been taking no longer worked as well and doctors struggled
futilely to find the right prescription.
As a result of his recurring mental illness, he was withdrawn
and depressed and making little progress in writing the life story
on which the lucrative movie was going to be based, friends said
Thursday. They said they believed that the pressure of writing,
even as he was unable to land a job as a law professor, contributed
to his decline.
Advocates for the mentally ill tried Thursday to ward off any
public conclusions that people with schizophrenia needed to be
feared.
Laurie Flynn, executive director of the National Alliance for
the Mentally Ill in Washington, said that dramatic shifts in
behavior occurred when people stopped taking their medication.
Sometime in the morning or early afternoon, Laudor had also
spoken by telephone to his mother, who lives in New Rochelle.
Something in the conversation apparently disturbed Mrs. Laudor
because at about 4:20 p.m., in what the police described as a
distraught voice, she called the Hastings police station to let
them know of her conversation with her son.
Police found the body and decided to go directly to the mother's
New Rochelle home to inform her. Schiavone said that it was clear
to the mother that it was her son who had killed Ms. Costello.
Thursday afternoon, Ms. Costello's parents, William and Marilyn,
flew in from Newton, Mass., where she grew up, to identify her body
and talk to investigators.
It was after college while working for a management consultant
firm that he experienced his first brush with illness. He
complained that his phones were tapped. Later, he began to hear
bells in the night and to imagine that his room was in flames.
Randy Banner, a journalist who is a friend of the Laudor family,
said that Michael's father would talk him down from his
hallucinations, asking him, for example, to place his hands in the
flame that he imagined.
His father helped him through Yale Law School, where he
performed so brilliantly he was awarded a postdoctoral
associateship. He also saw himself as a role model for the mentally
ill, and in the Times interview expressed his displeasure with what
he said were stereotypes of schizophrenics as violent.
You see the reaction again and again when driving Volvo's new
C70 coupe. When you double-park at the dry cleaners, pull into a
parking garage, approach a toll booth, people glance quickly, then
do a double-take. They are puzzled.
Instinctively, they know the C70 is a Volvo; the rectangular
grille with its diagonal slash mark could belong to nothing else.
But the lines are sleek and clean, so the C70 genuinely looks like
a car and not, as Volvos have for ages, like the box the car came
in.
And then they have me stumped. For while the C70 is eye-catching
and elegant and its turbo-charged engine serves up some serious
fun, it is not particularly enjoyable to drive. It lacks the sharp
reflexes of a BMW 328is, the rock-of-ages rigidity of a Mercedes
CLK320 or the fist-in-a-velvet-glove control of the Lexus SC 300.
The Volvo's combination of high power and front-wheel drive
results as is often the case in twitchy road manners unbecoming
a serious driver's car. And with aggressive, low-profile tires on
big 18-inch wheels, the test car's rough-and-tumble ride did not
measure up to luxury-car standards.
The C70 is testament to the competitive pressures faced by
relatively small, independent auto makers like Volvo at a time when
Volkswagen has built a lineup from Skodas to Silver Seraphs, when
Daimler-Benz gazed into the future and decided to get there now by
merging with Chrysler.
To thrive, Volvo must broaden its lineup, but it lacks a parent
with the deep pockets needed to develop an array of car platforms.
So it has pinned its future on three basic front-wheel-drive
platforms the compact 40 series, which arrives in fall 1999; the
midsize 70 series, formerly known as the 850, and a new flagship,
the 80 series, which goes on sale in October.
For the C70, a low-volume car that marks Volvo's first,
tentative steps to move its image up the scale, it borrowed the
structure of its S70 family sedan. Volvo asked Tom Walkinshaw
Racing, a British specialty company, to infuse the workaday
platform with sporting character.
The results are mixed: While the C70 holds its own in track
testing against similarly priced rivals, excelling at acceleration
and road-holding tests, it can feel unpolished on real-world
byways. Inoffensive if not impressive on smooth roads, the C70 is
harsh and jumpy on rough patches.
The steering wheel does not send back much road feel, though the
steering effort is heavy. Nor does the wheel want to return to a
neutral center without some prodding. While a rear-drive BMW grips
corners as if it had claws, the front-drive Volvo is inclined to
plow ahead on turns.
It is, in all, a car that is difficult to drive smoothly. A
balky five-speed manual transmission adds to the hijinks. While
Volvo should be applauded for offering a stick shift Mercedes
does not the C70 is one of the few cars I'd prefer with an
automatic.
Either transmission plays second fiddle to the C70's main
attribute, a turbo-charged screamer of an engine. Shared with
Volvo's sportiest sedan, the S70 T5, the sideways-mounted in-line
five cylinder behaves innocuously most of the time. But a kick of
the accelerator rockets the car ahead like the starship Enterprise
engaging warp speed.
The horsepower rating is deceptively modest, just 236, but the
engine reaches peak torque, 243 foot-pounds, at just 2,700 rpm. If
a tailgate terrorist bears down from behind, the C70 can leave him
in the dust listening to the turbo's throaty roar.
You pay a price for such maneuvers. There is a hint of turbo
lag, a brief, disconcerting pause before the car shoots ahead, and
torque steer, in which the rush of power tugs the driving wheels
from side to side.
Yet the cabin offers delights along with irritations. The
two-tone leather is gorgeous, but the black-stained walnut trim is
rather gloomy. The firm seats, with big side bolsters they also
house the side-impact air bags are sporty, but
larger-than-average drivers may find them confining.
And my biggest gripe about the C70 is a serious lack of legroom,
a deficiency not apparent in the specifications but one also
noticed by two other 6-foot-1 men who sat behind the wheel.
The head restraints, however, are exemplary perhaps the best
on any car. High and close to the head, they should help prevent
whiplash injuries even for tall drivers, and they are comfortable
to boot.
The C70 does have some agreeable amenities. The steering wheel
tilts and telescopes. The Dolby Surround Sound stereo, $595 on top
of the not-so-basic standard system (400-watt amplifier, 10
speakers and a handy, three-disk, in-dash CD changer), is
electrifying comparable with the terrific Bose system in the new
Cadillac Seville. But the Volvo unit includes a strange-looking
speaker that protrudes above the dash.
The shift knob is polished wood, but the automatic-transmission
version is ringed with plastic, and that is what your hand feels.
The door pockets are too shallow to be useful, and the console box
under the center armrest is just big enough for a couple of CD
cases. And the armrest/storage lid also houses what may be the
world's dumbest cup holder: It slides out to hold two medium
containers, but should you lift the lid to reach into the box, your
beverage spills onto the passenger.
More thought has gone into the instruments. Markings on the fuel
gauge tell how many gallons of gas remain. The trip computer is a
wonder of simplicity, with various readouts displayed at the twist
of a dial.
And what's this? Instead of the digital mumbo-jumbo, electronic
slide-rules and up-down buttons that have spread like kudzu through
cars, Volvo has come up with a wonderful invention for tuning the
radio, adjusting the volume and setting the temperature. It is
called a knob, and drivers who would rather watch the road than
grope for tiny buttons will find it refreshingly retro.
As for safety, there are front and rear fog lights, daytime
running lights and headlamp washer/wipers. But if the car isn't
started after the doors are unlocked, ostensibly within two
minutes, they re-lock.
A colleague discovered this after tossing keys, purse and money
on the seat, closing the door and walking around the car in well
under two minutes, she insists. Locked out and angry, she waited
for a locksmith and wondered what she would have done if a child
had been confined inside.
Configured for four occupants there is a mini-console between
the rear foot wells this coupe treats rear passengers pretty
well. The biggest problem with the back seat is the front seats you need two hands to tilt the heavy, clunky seatbacks. To move the
entire seat forward, you pull up on the latch and hold it for what
seems like ages, since the motorized seat is painfully slow.
So is the C70 worth the price? My test drive followed time in
the CLK and a couple of BMWs, and the C70 suffered in comparison in
terms of ride, handling and comfort.
Volvo's coupe inhabits an uncomfortable niche between sport and
luxury, and it comes off as neither flounder nor pheasant: front
drive inhibits the aggressive engine and the body structure seems
oddly unrefined. The car's luxury pretensions are undercut by a
jumpy rough-road ride.
After driving a car so costly, I'm usually sad to see it go. But
I walked away from the C70, admired the sweep of its sheet metal
one last time, and never looked back. 
A C70 convertible will go on sale early next month at a price
estimated at $44,000. Options will push fully equipped models close
to $50,000, where the C70 will compete with the Mercedes CLK320
Cabriolet, which arrives in the fall.
The C70 is Volvo's first convertible since the plastic-body
Volvo Sport of 1956, and it is a stylish showcase for a company
trying to break out of its safe, staid box.
The top goes up or down at the push of a button, with no latches
to release or covers to snap in place. Touching another button
lowers all four windows simultaneously.
Like the coupe, the convertible is elegantly appointed the
test car had unusual, but pleasing, suede-like seat inserts but
front legroom is glaringly short. The back seat was a revelation,
though, with plenty of room for two adults whether the top was up
or down.
Twin roll bars pop up behind the rear head restraints if a
sensor detects that the car may roll over. But the mechanics for
the roll bars and the elaborate power top steal much of the trunk
space.
While the C70 convertible looks like the coupe, it uses the less
powerful 2.4-liter five-cylinder from the S70 GLT. With a
light-pressure turbo-charger, it pumps out 190 horsepower, 46 less
than the coupe.
The soft-top comes only with a four-speed automatic
transmission, and its standard tires and wheels are smaller,
16-inch versions. With less power and an extra 250 pounds of
reinforcement, the convertible does not have the coupe's
neck-snapping takeoff.
The test car had no rattles or squeaks, but slight vibrations
could be felt through the floor pan, doors and steering wheel, and
the suspension was bouncy. Quick stops caused awkward shudders.
While the C70 coupe can't figure out whether it's a lady or a
scamp, the convertible doesn't pretend to be a sports machine. It's
an upscale, head-turning cruiser an impress-the-neighbors
alternative to the Chrysler Sebring. Alas, you can have two
Sebrings for the tab of one C70. 
NEW YORK Chinese authorities in Shanghai on Thursday detained
the shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera that
is scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln Center
Festival, threatening to disrupt the New York event and start an
international incident.
When the criticisms first emerged this week, Lincoln Center
informally asked the State Department and the U.S. Information
Agency to follow the situation. After Thursday's action, in which
the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Culture refused permission for
sets from the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Company to leave the airport,
the State Department intervened.
At the same time, Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln
Center, sought help from Henry Kissinger, the former secretary of
state, who is a friend of hers. Because the production is scheduled
to move on to the Festival d'Automne in Paris in November, the
French Foreign Ministry has also become involved.
An American official who spoke on the condition of anonymity
said that it was not clear whether the Chinese government, which is
preparing for a visit by President Clinton next week, had played
any part in the matter.
The shipment in question, consisting of all the sets, props and
costumes for the production, was ostensibly held back for an
inspection of the contents, according to Lincoln Center officials.
The authorities allowed the containers to be reclosed, Redden
said, adding that he hoped they would be shipped on the next
available flight, on Sunday. But he said the authorities still had
objections to the production that could pose further problems.
For months, cigarette-industry executives have said they would
rather fight every lawsuit filed against them than support federal
legislation like the $516 billion tobacco bill introduced by Sen.
John McCain of Arizona. With the scuttling of the McCain bill on
Wednesday, they are now likely to get plenty of practice.
Today, over 800 lawsuits are pending against tobacco companies,
a figure that represents a quadrupling of the number of such cases
in just three years. And along with health-related cases brought by
individual smokers, new groups of claimants ranging from
officials of states and cities to insurers and union health plans
to Indian tribes have also jumped into the legal chase.
Some legal experts believe that many of these cases will
disappear or fail because they were filed simply to be in a
position to cash in on a potential congressional settlement of
tobacco litigation. And officials of tobacco companies, which have
been largely unscathed in court, say they are confident they will
continue to prevail.
But the rapidly accelerating pace of lawsuits is also producing
a high-speed game of legal Russian roulette for those companies.
And every courtroom wound suffered by the industry, like a recent
$1 million verdict in Florida, is likely to bring still more
lawsuits, legal experts said.
Robert Rabin, a professor at Stanford University School of Law,
said he believed the industry had the resources to lose half of the
individual lawsuits brought against it as long as the number of
such cases annually ranged from 100 to 200 claims. But Rabin said
he foresees a litigation landslide if juries start giving out large
punitive-damage awards or if class-action claims like one set to
begin in Florida next month succeed.
In the Florida case, producers face the first class-action
lawsuit ever brought to trial on behalf on smokers throughout a
state claiming addiction or tobacco-related injuries. And in
September, the industry faces another legal test when the trial of
a lawsuit brought by the attorney general of Washington state to
recover Medicaid expenses begins.
Joe Rice, a plaintiffs' lawyer from Charleston, S.C., who
represents 29 states, said that he was only aware of court efforts
to mediate state attorneys general lawsuits in Washington and New
York.
Tobacco-industry lawyers said that they are ready to take on all
comers. And they add the industry's decision to pay out some $35
billion over the past year to settle lawsuits brought by four
states Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota did not
reflect the weakness of their legal position, but rather the legal
quirks of those cases and the industry's eagerness not to upset
momentum for a national resolution.
Little and other industry lawyers point to a number of recent
victories in which tobacco companies managed to have thrown out
lawsuits brought by union health plans against them on procedural
grounds or have some of the damage claims in lawsuits brought by
state attorneys general thrown out.
But even some lawyers who have worked closely with the industry
said tobacco makers now faced a new host of legal challenges
because damaging industry documents had been recently disclosed as
part of those settlements and were already being put to use against
the industry.
Earlier this month, for example, a Florida jury, which reviewed
documents initially obtained by the state of Minnesota, ordered
Brown Williamson Tobacco Co. to pay $1 million, including
$500,000 in punitive damages, to the family of a man whose death
from cancer was blamed on cigarettes. And lawyers handling the
Florida class-action claim are now battling in court to use the
Minnesota records in their case.
It was the desire to end legal uncertainty that led five major
tobacco companies to pursue last June's $368.5 billion settlement
proposal with state attorneys generals and class-action lawyers.
That plan, under which producers agreed to restrict tobacco
advertising and pay penalties if youth smoking did not fall,
settled state lawsuits and barred class-action lawsuits and the
awarding of punitive damages.
Those provisions were critical because compensatory damages in
smoking lawsuit, which have rarely been paid, were small. But a
punitive damage award, which is meant to punish a company, or the
loss of a class-action case could produce significant financial
damage.
Still, as the price tag of the June proposal grew in the Senate,
cigarette producers saw the prospects of higher prices for their
products, lowered sales and the loss of lawsuit protections they
had sought.
Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, a
company that advises institutional investors on legal terms, said
she is not surprised that producers have decided to take their
chances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.
The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewed
courtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general to
jump-start their lawsuits against producers. A large majority of
the states involved in last June's plan were late in suing
producers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to win
congressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.
Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over the
past year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in a
lawsuit against a cigarette company. Such a bill, which effectively
allows a state to recover collectively rather than pressing
individual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was considered
instrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billion
settlement with the industry last August.
Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, said
that while some states have lost ground waiting to see what
Congress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceeding
actively.
Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try and
restart settlement negotiations between the industry and some state
attorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks very
preliminary.
Ms. Aronson and other legal experts added that while they
believed the industry could overcome many of the claims filed
against it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.
They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers and
union health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the first
time. And while those actions might not initially succeed, the
success of one could open the door for others.
In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and the
steady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs about
tobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.
Aronson and others added.
UNITED NATIONS The chief U.N. arms inspector for Iraq said
Thursday that a plan for ending sanctions that he and the Iraqis
agreed to last weekend would collapse if the Iraqis withheld
documents or other evidence, something they threatened to do even
while the talks were in progress.
The chief inspector, Richard Butler, sent a report to the
Security Council Thursday that paints a much less optimistic
picture than he or Iraqi officials presented when the Baghdad
meetings ended on Sunday and it appeared that the Iraqis were
within striking distance of the lifting of an oil-sales embargo.
Thursday's report reveals that Iraq, while agreeing to some
cooperation, is in fact attempting to block all investigations into
other crucial areas, including chemical and biological weaponry,
and wants to defer discussions of other issues.
In his report to the Security Council, Butler said that the
Iraqis had agreed to deal with a list of certain outstanding issues
by early August, including providing detailed information on
missile warheads, mustard gas shells and other weaponry, along with
documents. But they flatly refused to address questions about
production of the deadly nerve agent VX.
The leader of the Iraqi delegation to the talks, Deputy Prime
Minister Tariq Aziz, also told Butler that no more information
would be provided on biological weapons, and demanded another
technical evaluation of biological issues by outsiders, notably
from Russia, France and China, who are the supporters of Iraq on
the Security Council. That evaluation is scheduled to begin in
Baghdad on July 11.
Aziz also refused to discuss the issue of tons of missing rocket
fuel or the government's concealment policies, which arms
inspectors say were formulated systematically to confuse and
mislead them. And the Iraqis once again raised a demand that
American U-2 aircraft stop flying over their territory.
Officials familiar with the talks in Baghdad on June 13 and 14
say that Iraq arrived with huge delegations and videotaped the
proceedings, which at times appeared more staged than real. The
government of President Saddam Hussein, which is distributing the
videotapes to diplomats in Baghdad, apparently believes that the
tapes will convince the world that the disarmament process has
reached its final chapter and that Butler's disarmament commission
has already been sidelined.
The next major sanctions review takes place in the Security
Council in October, more than eight years after an embargo was
imposed following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Iraq wants all
sanctions lifted by the end of the year. Diplomats here say that,
at best, a ban on oil sales could end, but other trade restrictions
would remain in place.
The Iraqis, who are becoming more and more open about their
alliance with the Russians, French and Chinese in efforts to end
the oil-sales embargo, left U.N. officials and diplomats meeting in
Baghdad with the impression that Iraq thinks that it has enough
political support in the Security Council to defer discussion on
the tough areas they have closed to inspectors for now. Some
Council members have begun to talk about how 100 percent compliance
may not be possible in some cases.
Diplomats say that Iraq, which has been skillfully plotting its
way out of sanctions for a year, seems to be counting additionally
on President Clinton's unwillingness to face any major crisis with
Iraq or to take military action in the fall, just before a
congressional election.
After the oil embargo is lifted, Iraq will fall under a
long-term monitoring system rather than active, intrusive
disarmament inspections with orders to search and destroy. Although
the surveillance system set up in Iraq by the Special Commission,
known as UNSCOM, would continue to operate though perhaps in a
different form inspectors are concerned that without direct
Security Council oversight, Iraq will whittle down controls and
find it easier to defy requests for cooperation.
Aziz refused to address the question of missing rocket fuel,
saying it could be dealt with later under long-term monitoring. He
said that accounting for missile engines and guidance systems was
not necessary at this point.
ARLINGTON, Texas The Oakland Athletics left 15 runners on
base. They loaded the bases in three innings and failed to score
each time.
That freak play, with two runs scoring on a wild-pitch
strikeout, and tough pitching in clutch situations allowed the
Rangers to salvage the final game of a disappointing homestand with
a 3-2 victory against the Athletics yesterday at The Ballpark in
Arlington.
The hard-fought victory, played in 3 hours, 20 minutes in
99-degree heat and a whipping prairie wind, left the Rangers 2-5 on
the homestand. They open a three-game series with the
division-leading Anaheim Angels tonight on the West Coast.
Six Rangers pitchers combined to allow nine hits, eight walks
and one hit batter but limited the Athletics to 3-for-11 hitting
with runners in scoring position. They didn't retire the side in
order until John Wetteland did so in the ninth to earn his 20th
save.
Rangers starter Aaron Sele issued a career-high seven walks but
battled through 6 2/3 innings to get the victory, his 10th of the
year against four losses. It's the earliest a Rangers pitcher has
won his 10th game in a season, and it ties him with Atlanta's Greg
Maddux for the major-league lead.
Oakland starter Tom Candiotti, throwing a mean knuckleball, was
just as tough in clutch situations. Actually, he was too tough on
the key play of the game, both for Clark and Oakland rookie catcher
A.J. Hinch.
It might have made a difference that Candiotti tangled with
home-plate umpire Ted Barrett while retrieving the dropped throw,
because Greer barely slid in under Hinch's tag.
Sele and the bullpen made that play hold up. The Athletics put
together three hits in the fourth to make it 3-2 but couldn't pull
even despite having nine base runners in the final five innings.
In the first payoff from the state's new utility deregulation
law, a Boston buying cooperative is expected to announce today the
first large contract for commercial and municipal users to buy
electricity on the open market.
National Energy Choice LLC, acting as a broker, said it has
letters of intent with several hundred users businesses;
nonprofit organizations; cities and towns in Massachusetts and
Rhode Island to purchase electricity from Select Energy, the
unregulated subsidiary of Hartford-based Northeast Utilities, the
largest utility in New England.
The National Energy Choice program would officially start in
January 1999. It would be available initially to businesses and
organizations, but not residential customers. There are plans to
expand the program to residential customers after 2000, said Paul
L. Barrett, a National Energy Choice managing director.
Customers who sign up for the four- or five-year program will
pay about 5 percent less than what they pay utilities now, said
Steven M. Rothstein, managing director of National Energy Choice, a
company backed by Citizens Energy Corp.
The agreement is similar to but potentially larger than an
electricity purchase agreement between the Massachusetts Health and
Educational Facilities Authority and PECO Energy Co. of
Philadelphia.
Users that have signed letters of intent include movie theaters,
hotels, associations representing Massachusetts municipalities,
nursing homes, and newspapers, along with 30 school districts in
Rhode Island.
He said for communities that spend $500,000 per year on
electricity, about 30 percent of that cost will be in electric
generation. Users will save 5 percent on the electric generation
portion. National Energy Choice will earn a monthly fee of 15
percent to 24 percent of the money saved, said Barrett.
Customers can also save an additional 5 to 7 percent if they
pursue an optional energy efficiency program aimed at reducing
electrical consumption.
For those savings, Select Energy will conduct an energy audit
that would recommend improvements in heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems. Customers could use Select Energy or other
companies to perform the upgrades to qualify for the discount.
NEW YORK Long viewed as one of the world's most attractive
targets for terrorists, New York City has quietly undertaken an
ambitious effort to counter attacks carried out with deadly
chemicals or germs, according to city officials.
The city is buying germ detectors, working out deals with
regional hospitals for emergency care, striking unusual accords
with drug companies to make medicines quickly in an emergency and
taking steps to stockpile medications, officials say.
Although no specific threat of a germ or chemical attack has
been detected recently, the city has undertaken an extensive
training program since September, instructing about 4,000 city
police officers and firefighters in how to handle such an
emergency. Next week, about 1,500 doctors and nurses in New York
are to be trained by outside medical experts.
Emergency planners face bewildering problems in preparing to
deal with germ attacks, the foremost being how to tell if sudden
outbreaks of illness are natural or purposeful. Malicious strikes
are hard to detect rapidly since deadly microbes might incubate in
human bodies for hours, days, weeks or even months before causing
widespread havoc.
Dealing with waves of sick or dying victims is a planner's
nightmare, as is cleaning up contaminated areas and buildings. The
spores of anthrax, one of the most common biological warfare
agents, can live for centuries.
Two months ago, city officials began monitoring patterns of
emergency hospitalization so that they can more swiftly determine
if unconventional weapons are used to attack New York. Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani, officials say, has asked to be personally
informed of any suspicious patterns of illness.
Experts agree that skillful terrorists in theory could injure or
kill thousands, if not millions, of people, but disagree on the
exact dimensions of the threat. Too little is known of that shadowy
underworld, they say.
Federal and local officials have become increasingly worried in
recent years about the possibility of germ and chemical attacks.
Nationally, the worries stem from American intelligence reports
about terrorists planning attacks and such incidents as a religious
cult's assaults on Tokyo with nerve gas and germs.
Locally, the danger from terrorists was driven home in 1993,
when a terrorist bomb planted by Islamic militants exploded under
the World Trade Center, killing six people and injuring 1,000.
Congress has provided about $100 million to support the training
of local officials nationwide to cope with unconventional terrorist
attacks. But the Pentagon said only 27 of the 120 cities in that
program had received assistance so far. And many have yet to
receive equipment.
In interviews, New York City officials said they were torn
between reassuring the public by revealing the defensive
preparations and panicking people with doomsday scenarios that, in
recent attack studies and simulations, have easily overwhelmed the
city's existing defenses.
A sizable part of the $17 million that New York has devoted to
emergency preparations has been spent on dealing with
unconventional threats from terrorists. Five of the 50 people in
the city's Office of Emergency Management work full time on the
problem, officials said.
City officials said Giuliani has been a driving force behind New
York's heightened preparations. The officials said the city's
planned $15 million crisis control center was described by these
officials as a part of the city's emerging defenses.
The city plans to have the ventilation system of the crisis
management center near the World Trade Center adopt a defensive
strategy known as positive pressure, experts say. This precaution
keeps a gentle breeze blowing outward whenever a door or window is
opened, automatically helping to keep out dangerous germs or
chemicals.
The city's defenses are being organized by the Office of
Emergency Management. Hauer is also a member of a small group of
scientists and public health officials who have been advising
President Clinton on germ warfare and civil defense.
Until now, Hauer and other local officials have declined to be
specific about the city's preparations. Some of the steps being
taken and their motivation were outlined Tuesday by William Nagle,
a deputy director of the Office of Emergency Planning, at a
conference in Washington, which was sponsored by the Potomac
Institute for Policy Studies.
The 4,000 members of the city's police and fire units who have
undergone military instruction of a day or more in how to deal with
germ and chemical attacks, he said, have been taught to fight their
instincts in such an emergency.
Hauer, the office's director, said the city had spent more than
$1 million to buy two mobile emergency trailers filled with
containment vessels of different sizes that can isolate dangerous
germs or chemicals, as well as equipment to respond to an attack.
It has bought several hundred portable detectors to help
identify the exact nature of an infectious strike within as little
as 10 minutes. One type is as small as a matchbook; the other,
known as an immunoassay, is a boxy gadget that uses an antibody to
detect the presence of a dangerous germ. New York is the first city
to acquire the latter, Hauer said.
My daddy gave the newspaper a pulse. He taught me to love its
changing canvas, its omnipotent eye, its infinite throat. And since
one long-ago tabloid featured his obituary, it is much too late to
apologize to him for compromising that love.
From time to time in my metro column, to create the desired
impact or slam home a salient point, I attributed quotes to people
who didn't exist. I could give them names, even occupations, but I
couldn't give them what they needed most a heartbeat. As anyone
who's ever touched a newspaper knows, that's one of the cardinal
sins of journalism: Thou shall not fabricate. No exceptions. No
excuses.
And yet there are always excuses. Usually they point to the
cursed fallibility of human beings, our tendency to spit in the
face of common sense, zigging when the world says zag. Sometimes
excuses reveal real or imagined inadequacies, or the belief that
the world, if it is to be conquered, must be conquered
singlehandedly.
I've already heard from dozens of people in search of an
official sound-byte, a hook upon which to hang the newly fallen
wordsmith. The (itals)reason.(unitals)
But I didn't establish priorities, and the first casualty was
time. In Boston, my face was my column. I wanted the pieces to
jolt, to be talked about, to leave the reader indelibly impressed.
And sometimes, as a result of trying to do too much at once and
cutting corners, they didn't. So I tweaked them to make sure they
did. It didn't happen often, but it did happen. And if it had only
happened once, that was one time too many.
I will survive this knowing that the heart of my columns was
honest and heartfelt. None of the pieces considered for the
American Society of Newspaper Editors award or this year's Pulitzer
Prize were doctored in any way. I will write as long as I breathe,
despite the dire predictions that this indiscretion spells the end
of my career. In the course of living this flawed life, I've
stepped into the lives of remarkable people. They will always live
in me.
So to the welders, the B-boys, the preachers, and the surgeons,
to the grocery clerks and bartenders and single mothers, to the
politicians, PR flacks, spokespersons and secretaries, to my dear
husband and family and friends, I am sorry for betraying your
trust. To the editors who supported and encouraged me, as well as
those who jumped ship when the mighty USS Smith began to take on
water, thanks for the lessons. To those colleagues and readers who
salivated daily at the thought of my head on a platter, congrats.
And to the hundreds of real people who honored me with their time
and stories, you are my salvation and I will hold you tight during
this trial.
To every single reader, young and old, black and white, who
opened their papers on Monday and Friday and trusted me to be
truth, know this: You were the truth all along.
Finally, I'd like to apologize to the memory of my father, Otis
Douglas Smith. He burns in my soul through this, and beyond this.
Boston Globe editor Matthew V. Storin Thursday asked for and
received the resignation of award-winning Metro columnist Patricia
Smith after the paper identified four 1998 columns in which Smith
acknowledged fabricating some characters and quotations.
Smith, who arrived at the Globe in 1990 and began writing her
Metro column in 1994, won this year's American Society of Newspaper
Editors Distinguished Writing Award for commentary and column
writing. In April, she was named a Pulitzer Prize finalist in the
commentary category. She frequently wrote passionately about racial
issues and was a lightning rod for reader approval and criticism.
Storin said Smith acknowledged the other fabricated characters,
including a worker named Jim Burke, who was erecting barricades for
the Boston Marathon; a woman named Dorothy Gibson, whose young
daughter was getting a painful hair makeover for Easter Sunday; and
a South End cosmetologist named Janine Byrne, who was commenting on
the case involving kidnaping defendant Stephen Fagan.
When researchers could not document a number of these people,
Moore met with Smith earlier this week, at which time he said that
some questions had been raised about her columns. Editors had
failed in efforts to locate individuals quoted by name in her
column, and now the paper needed reassurance that these people did,
in fact, exist.
He handed her the names of six people, asking her to locate
them and document their existence. Over the course of a two-hour
discussion, Smith acknowledged that only two of the six names
listed were of real people.
Smith's resignation comes soon after the well-publicized firing
of New Republic associate editor Stephen Glass, who was caught
fabricating information in numerous stories. He left the magazine
in May, and The New Republic later issued an explanation and
apology to its readers.
Yeary joined Salomon Brothers in 1990 where, as a member of the
firm's well-regarded telecommunications group, he worked on some of
the most visible deals in the sector. He participated in a number
of major transactions at Salomon, including SBC Communications
Inc.'s purchases of Ameritech Corp. and Pacific Telesis and the
sale of McCaw Cellular Communications to ATT Corp.
Yeary is expected to open a New York office for the
Washington-based Carlyle Group, which has invested $7 billion in
more than 40 transactions in the United States.
Responding to two published reports by the New York Times and
the Associated Press that he is on the verge of becoming
permanent commissioner, Selig told the Globe Thursday that he
remains undecided.
This came on the heels of a Times report that the search
committee appointed in January 1997 has decided there is no one
better qualified for the job than Selig, baseball's acting boss
since the owners forced out the last full-time commissioner, Fay
Vincent, in September 1992. The Times said Selig would assume the
commissionership on a full-time basis this year, perhaps by the
All-Star Game in Denver July 7.
Selig reinforced that position when contacted by the Globe though he did not rule out taking the job at some point.
The owners already have expressed wide backing for one of their
own, though Selig's daughter, Wendy Selig-Prieb, has been running
the Brewers' operation since her father assumed the commissioner's
duties. And the burden may be reduced because baseball now has its
first full-time CEO, Paul Beeston, in place.
Still, Selig obviously has misgivings. In a recent interview,
Selig, 63, said the last five years have been draining on his
family. His commitment to a new Milwaukee stadium, now under
construction, doesn't end until the facility is completed. And he
has just become a grandfather. The next scheduled owners' meeting
is Sept. 15-17 in Milwaukee, so Selig still has time to mull his
decision.
The latest call for Selig merely reflects the relative
confidence his fellow owners have in the onetime car dealer from
Milwaukee who rose from relative obscurity in the 1970s to become
perhaps baseball's most powerful owner. Not the richest. Not the
CEO of the biggest and best franchise. But a little guy from the
Midwest who since reestablishing a franchise in Milwaukee in 1970
has somehow managed to hang in with the big boys despite the
changing economic conditions.
It took three court losses on charges of collusion to expose the
commissioner's office as nothing but an extension of ownership.
Vincent was forced out because he dared exercise independent
judgment at a time when ownership wanted a strong front on such
matters as expansion, realignment, and interleague play. Vincent's
departure was baseball's loss.
In his place, ownership turned to Selig and a ruling Executive
Council, which carried the owners' banner on the aforementioned
issues. In appointing Selig, ownership did give the appearance of a
united front. But catastrophic confrontation with the union
followed, and the result was the players' strike of 1994 that wiped
out the World Series and wasn't resolved until the following
spring.
SAN FRANCISCO Casey Martin parked his shiny green golf cart
about 20 yards in front of the green on the 438-yard fourth hole at
the Olympic Club Thursday, then limped up the slope and stared
toward the rough that resembled bunches of broccoli on a produce
stand.
Several people in his gallery pointed to the little blue flag
marker near his ball, barely visible deep down in the broccoli. So
deep that he had to chip out firmly, his ball sliding about five
feet past the cup.
But on the 437-yard sixth hole, Martin rolled in a 20-foot putt
for the first Open birdie for the first golfer to play in a U.S.
Open while riding in a cart between shots.
About an hour before his midafternoon tee time, Martin emerged
from the men's locker room, where he has mingled with the best
touring pros for the first time.
Martin acknowledged, however, that some golfers' comments have
hurt as much as the circulatory ailment in his right leg known as
Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome.
Martin rebutted those who feel that walking is a test of the
fatigue factor in tournament golf.
No matter where Martin has played, on the Nike Tour or here at
Olympic, he has attracted several disabled people to his gallery.
And at Olympic, with high thick rough created by the winter rain
from El Nino, he planned to hit his 3-wood or his 2-iron off the
majority of the tees.
Waiting for him in the amphitheater around the 18th green were
thousands of spectators sitting and standing on the grassy slopes
next to Olympic's stucco Spanish-style clubhouse.
SNIP (Phoenix) Randy Hinkle of Mesa won a free Vase ctomy this
morning. He blazed through an obstacle course on a 15
ALBANY, N.Y. This was supposed to be the year that a new sense
of openness was to reign in Albany. There were to be no more secret
meetings between the Capitol's power brokers to decide the outcome
of major legislation. Public business was now to be done in public.
And rank-and-file members of the Legislature suddenly mattered.
As the final grueling hours of the 1998 legislative session
wound down Thursday, it found the State Capitol's ruling
triumvirate Gov. George Pataki, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver
and Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno once again cloistered
behind closed doors, cutting deals.
Suddenly, advocates, reporters and even lawmakers found
themselves huddled outside the governor's office, as if awaiting
the pronouncement of an oracle. It was business as usual and even
comforting to some, particularly lobbyists, who thrive on the
secrecy of Albany.
The session actually got off to a productive start earlier this
year. The leaders of both houses abandoned their much-maligned
practice of secret budget negotiations and allowed the other
members of the Legislature to negotiate the budget during
conference committees that were open to the public.
The return of secrecy generated the swirl of confusion and panic
that has long marked the end of session. All of a sudden,
unfamiliar bills started to surface, some of them the kind of
contentious ones that flash past bleary-eyed lawmakers who find
themselves having to consider hundreds of pieces of legislation in
the marathon rush to the end.
Michael Kink, a lobbyist for Housing Works, an advocacy group
for people with AIDS, said that he had been checking and rechecking
the legislative calendar to monitor the fate of a little-noticed
bill that would allow prison officials to test any inmate for the
virus that cause AIDS.
The power of the legislative leaders was clearly evident in
other intriguing ways, including the use of committees that
function as tools for the leaders of each house because they decide
which bills go to the floor for a vote and which bills are bottled
up.
That scenario played out Thursday at a meeting of the Assembly
Health Committee, where chairman Richard Gottfried was haphazardly
sending some bills to the floor and others to the legislative
purgatory of a committee run by Silver.
That got some committee members on the sidelines grumbling that
Silver was dictating the outcome. Sandra Galef, a Democratic
assemblywoman from Ossining, asked Gottfried to explain the logic
behind his decisions.
Bruce and Janice Grieshaber, a couple from Syracuse, found
themselves ensnared in a political fight in which they had only the
most tenuous connection.
The Grieshabers' daughter, Jenna, was killed in Albany last year
by a felon who was on parole, police say. Pataki seized upon the
case to urge the Legislature, particularly his Democratic rivals in
the Assembly, to end parole for violent felons.
Still the events left the Grieshabers filled with hope that a
measure to end parole would be approved after the differences were
bridged.
Frustrated and angry, the Grieshabers finally spoke out Thursday
afternoon, unexpectedly marching into the Capitol press room to
denounce Silver. They accused the speaker not only of bargaining in
bad faith but also of blocking a vote on the governor's plan, even
though there was widespread support in the Assembly.
ST.-DENIS, France If you glanced quickly at the field at the
end of Thursday night's game, there appeared to be little reason
for any French person to complain.
France had just won, 4-0, over Saudi Arabia to become the second
team to clinch a spot in the second round of the World Cup finals.
There at midfield, under the wonderfully theatrical oval opening in
the roof of the Stade de France, its players often treated with
ambivalence in their capital were basking in their newfound
popularity as the sellout crowd of nearly 80,000 roared.
But if you looked more closely, there was cause for pessimism.
There on the bench was French striker Christophe Dugarry with
crutches in both hands. Nowhere on the bench or the field was
Dugarry's friend Zinedine Zidane.
It was a night of mixed emotions for the host nation. Yes, the
French have soothed some of the fears about their ability to score
and to entertain with seven goals in their first two matches. Yes,
their defensive instincts and organization remain arguably the
world's finest. But they are now running dangerously low on
center-forwards, and they will now have to do without their finest
player, Zidane, for at least one and possibly two games, and
Dugarry for at least two weeks.
What made Zidane's red card more remarkable was that it was the
fifth of the day. Three were awarded in the earlier Group C match
between Denmark and South Africa.
Two were awarded Thursday night: the first in the 19th minute to
Saudi defender Mohammed al-Jahani after an aggressive late tackle
on Bixente Lizarazu. Clearly, the referees are taking Sepp Blatter,
the new FIFA president, at his word.
Blatter has been trying to rub out dangerous tackling for years,
and reminded officials of his desires Wednesday. Since then, six
red cards have been issued in three matches.
Thursday night, it was 11 Frenchmen against 10 Saudis for much
of the match, and it probably would not have been much of a match
even on equal footing. The French were in control from the start,
and if they had been more decisive offensively, they could have
gotten more than two goals from Thierry Henry, one goal from David
Trezeguet and one from Lizarazu.
Parreira left the MetroStars to coach the Saudis for a large
fistful of petrodollars. But after two losses, his new team no
longer has any chance of repeating its surprising 1994 performance
of advancing to the second round, and that will not delight the
princes who run Saudi soccer and have a decidedly Steinbrenneresque
approach to hiring and firing.
WASHINGTON In what has become an annual ritual for the
Republicans in control of Congress, a House subcommittee voted
Thursday to kill the National Endowment for the Arts but the Senate
was expected to revive it.
There was little debate in the House on the reasons for axing
the $98 million in federal money for the arts agency next year.
Republicans on the subcommittee were generally silent as Democrats
branded them as sheep following their leaders' election-year
efforts to satisfy conservatives.
New York state, which receives about 23 percent of the
endowment's grants, is the largest beneficiary in the nation. The
endowment subsidizes the New York State Council of the Arts and
such landmark institutions as Lincoln Center and the Metropolitan
Opera.
The agency has been a favorite punching bag for conservatives,
who object to spending taxpayer dollars for the arts in the first
place and for artistic efforts that they deem obscene and profane.
But moderates and liberals, and many of their constituents, support
it and for the last three years they have overridden conservative
efforts to abolish it.
Last year the House voted to reduce the endowment's funding to
zero from $99.5 million; in the end, the agency received $98
million.
Thursday's vote got the ball rolling again, but many rank and
file Republicans seemed to have little appetite for the debate.
When the move to eliminate the agency came up in the House
Appropriations subcommittee on Interior, no one complained about
the agency itself.
Regula said that by simply abolishing the agency, the
subcommittee was presenting a neutral stance to the House so that
it could have an untainted debate.
But Democrats on the committee, sensing a winning issue for
them, drew out the discussion and tried, in vain, to include the
$98 million in the proposed $13.4 billion Interior spending bill.
The chief purpose of the bill, which is $800 million below
President Clinton's request and $700 million below this year's
appropriation, is to keep the national parks running.
Rep. Joseph McDade of Pennsylvania, a senior Republican on the
subcommittee, told Obey that he was sympathetic with his view and
would vote to support the endowment when the matter reached the
floor. But he said it would be a tactical mistake to try to include
the money in the subcommittee recommendation. He said that such an
effort would be defeated along party lines, making the endowment
even easier to kill on the floor.
In the end, the Democratic efforts to pay for the agency were
defeated on a voice vote. But whatever the full House does, the
Senate is expected to approve financing for the endowment.
With tobacco legislation dead, the Senate Thursday quickly
passed the first of the 13 spending bills that both houses are
required to pass to keep the government operating. It approved
$21.7 billion for flood-control, beach, dam and other water
projects in nearly every congressional district, an increase of
$109 million over the 1998 budget.
The vote was 98 to 1. Sen. Russell D. Feingold, D-Wis., voted
against it but declined to explain his vote. He is facing a serious
election challenge from Rep. Mark Neumann, a conservative and
ardent opponent of government spending.
The bill will have to be reconciled with a House version. A
major difference is that the Senate would continue the $70 million
taxpayer subsidy of the Tennessee Valley Authority, which the House
would end.
TRENTON, N.J. In less than a minute, the New Jersey Assembly
passed legislation Thursday that would enable Prudential Insurance
Co. of America to convert from a mutual company, owned by
policyholders, to a publicly traded one.
The bill provides a framework for compensating Prudential's 11
million policyholders in the form of stock. Consumer advocates have
praised the company for its pledge to return its full value to
policyholders but say the bill contains loopholes that could
shortchange consumers. The bill does not limit executive
compensation and does not detail how the value of the company will
be determined.
The Senate is scheduled to vote on an identical bill on Monday.
Elizabeth Randall, the state commissioner of banking and insurance,
must approve the company's final reorganization plan.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico More than 6,000 telephone workers went
on an island-wide strike Thursday to try to stop the sale of a
controlling stake of the government-owned Puerto Rico Telephone Co.
to a consortium led by the GTE Corp.
The strike began with several confrontations between picketers
and the police on the same day the Puerto Rico Senate approved the
$1.8 billion sale. The House was expected to do the same by
Saturday.
But the sale, in which GTE has agreed to buy a majority stake in
the telephone company 50 percent plus one share for $375
million, is not expected to be completed until the end of the year,
pending regulatory approval, including that of the Federal
Communications Commission.
Many countries where telephone companies have been state
monopolies, particularly in Latin America, are privatizing the
concerns. But the government here has faced heated public
opposition to selling what many view with nationalistic pride as a
profitable public asset that could compete in an open
telecommunications market. Workers also fear massive layoffs from
Connecticut-based GTE, which has said it would honor existing labor
contracts and would not dismiss any employees for at least one
year.
Michael Masin, vice chairman of GTE and president of
international operations, said the company had yet to assess
whether dismissals would be required. But he added that the company
planned to offer financial inducements for workers to leave
voluntarily if necessary within the first year.
The strike's first day began on a violent note when shoving
matches broke out broke out between riot police officers escorting
managerial workers to their offices and striking workers who tried
to block their way at several buildings here. In a chaotic
early-morning scene captured by television cameras, police officers
hit and jabbed workers with nightsticks as they clung to an
entrance gate to prevent anyone from entering.
About 1,400 of a total of 1,800 management employees made it to
work on Thursday, the telephone company said, with some ferried by
helicopters to the roof of the telephone company's headquarters
here. Others rushed through picket lines with food and pillows.
Superintendent Pedro Toledo of the police department recommended
long stays for those working to minimize confrontations.
The police said there had been only one arrest, that of a worker
accused of spraying the police with a substance similar to Mace,
and two incidents of sabotage that left some San Juan neighborhoods
without telephone service. While customers found it hard on
Thursday to get directory assistance and operator service, company
officials said regular phone service was virtually normal
throughout the island of nearly 4 million residents.
The partial sale of the telephone company is part of a
privatization program initiated by Gov. Pedro Rossells. In an
interview on Thursday, he said that telecommunications legislation
enacted by Congress in 1996 mandated an end to the telephone
monopoly here and that he envisioned more efficiency, better
service and lower rates after the company passed to private
control.
Union leaders, however, have criticized the deal struck with GTE
as too favorable for the buyer, and political opponents have
accused the governor of selling the company short in order to
finance some of his electoral promises.
Under the terms of the agreement, the government of Puerto Rico
would receive $1.8 billion for the majority share of the company,
of which a consortium that includes GTE, Banco Popular of Puerto
Rico and other local investors would pay $375 million, a cash
figure critics find too low. The other $1.5 billion would come from
a commercial loan taken by the privatized telephone company.
The government of Puerto Rico would retain at least 44 percent
ownership after contributing a 3 percent interest to an employee
stock ownership plan and offering to sell an additional 3 percent
interest to employees for that plan.
The money from the sale would go to pay off the telephone
company's current debt, finance certain retirement and health-care
benefits for company employees and establish a $1 billion fund to
invest in public works like sewage systems and water distribution
systems.
NEW YORK From his hospital bed, the squeegee man who police
say was shot by an off-duty officer in the Bronx on Sunday said in
an interview that the officer flew into a rage and shot him in the
chest at point-blank range even after he offered to remove the soap
he had poured onto the windshield of the officer's car.
The shooting has raised new questions about whether the Police
Department does enough to control officers with a history of
brutality complaints.
The man who was shot, Antoine Reid, 38, is in the intensive care
unit at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx, where he is listed in
critical but stable condition. He said the incident began as he was
washing windshields at his usual spot on an exit of the Major
Deegan Expressway. As he soaped up the window of one car, he said,
the driver identified by the police as Michael W. Meyer, an
off-duty police officer cursed him, got out of his car, grabbed
him and then shot him without provocation.
Much of Reid's account of the shooting was similar to the
statements that detectives took from several witnesses, according
to three law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of
anonymity. But Meyer and his girlfriend, who was with him at the
time, have yet to provide their accounts and Reid had not yet been
interviewed by police Thursday last night. The officer has been
charged with attempted murder and is free on bail.
Before the shooting, Meyer had been removed from patrol duty and
assigned to the Police Department's maintenance section. Seven
complaints have been filed against him with the Civilian Complaint
Review Board and a $100 million civil suit is pending against him
in federal court in Brooklyn. But Meyer, who comes from a family of
police officers, had a number of commendations and medals for
valor.
Thursday, Reid's family announced that they planned to file a
$100 million civil suit against Meyer and the city of New York.
Their lawyers said the city was negligent because it knew of the
allegations of brutality against the officer but did not take away
his service pistol. That gun, a 9-mm semiautomatic, was used in the
shooting, the police said.
Police Commissioner Howard Safir has said he had no reason to
take away Meyer's gun because none of the complaints against him
pertained to the use of a firearm.
Major league baseball's odd, and seemingly never-ending, pursuit
of Bud Selig for the position of commissioner has come to an end.
Club owners have finally snared the man who insisted he would not
run if asked and not serve if elected.
Selig, according to high-ranking officials in baseball, will
soon officially be dubbed what he always was the man most wanted
by his fellow owners. According to those in the know, the promotion
from mere club owner and interim commissioner to full-time overseer
of his sport should come at or soon after the all-star break next
month, despite Selig's contention Thursday that talk of such a move
was premature.
It will be Selig's greatest challenge not only to figure out all
the required steps, but discern how to not stumble while attempting
the saber dance that has skewered the careers of the most
well-intentioned office-holders. For baseball's highest office
remains so many things to so many people that it is the most
fatally flawed of all such professional sports posts.
The baseball commissioner, similar yet unlike the commissioners
for football, basketball and hockey, is asked to be more than just
a chief executive officer. Rather, he must also be a moral
barometer, public icon, baby sitter, judge and jury, referee,
public punching bag, chief bottle washer and, alas, unwitting pawn,
as commishes too often find out in times of labor strife. Despite
donning all these hats, baseball's top guy is never perceived to be
as effective as, say, Pete Rozelle was when running the National
Football League or David Stern is as he shares the National
Basketball Association with Michael Jordan.
Alas, baseball's commissioner is rarely ever as powerful as
those other commissioners, and, embarrassingly, the pretense comes
at times when only potency is needed. That baseball's commissioner
is nonetheless viewed as being all things to all people renders the
office impossible and the situation winless, as most every
commissioners who preceded Selig would attest.
All that usually remains are calls to reform the office and
redefine the way baseball is run. And, of course, the
never-changing expectations that usually do in the commissioners
with the best of intentions.
Surprisingly, expectations are also a constant with owners,
players and umpires, all of whom should know better since they,
more than any other, are the first to encourage a commissioner to
do the job only to fillet the man for taking up the challenge. One
can almost sense the no-win tag being printed even before Selig's
contract negotiations are complete.
Perhaps an even bigger burden facing Selig is his own passion.
While Selig's baseball politics have been questioned on occasion,
his love for the game rarely is. And that makes him a lock to be
bitten by the worst bug of all commissioneritis, a disease that
consumes any office-holder who actually cares. Commissioners who
believe the game should adhere to a higher standard and shoot for
something loftier than the bottom line are especially vulnerable.
Sadly, this malady is rarely avoided, or rewarded, for that matter.
Do the things that you skewered Fay Vincent, the last idealistic
commissioner, for trying to do. Hold the game's import above all
else. Care as much about the bottom line of the fan, who frets as
much over the cost of cold hot dogs as you do about the battles
between millionaires and billionaires.
Don't forsake the moral standard that includes issues ranging
from civil rights in the front offices to the lack of civility that
spitting on umpires suggests.
Be not only a peacemaker but an innovator by insisting the game
stop slaughtering the images of its biggest assets. Promote the
players who are more than worthy of the game's attention. Make kids
want not only to be like Mike, but like McGwire, as well. Make the
Griffeys and Piazzas true partners and allow the players and their
representatives a fair say in growing the game.
Do these things and you will stop the groaning that seems
never-ending if only because the sport stirs so many emotions on so
many different levels and issues on a daily basis.
None of the above will be easy. It isn't supposed to be. Yet,
since Selig is finally willing to accept the job, he must accept
the challenges to try to make a difference even when intransigence
is the safer bet. That's what constitutes doing what is in the best
interest of baseball, the one element of the job that never
changes.
Yes, Selig could be summarily dismissed for succumbing to the
essence of the job. The good ones usually are. But that's okay if
Selig comes and goes never having failed to weigh what is right as
opposed to what is safe. It is all the fans, the owners, the
players, the umpires can and should ask. It is all Bud Selig should
ask of himself.
The world championships have become the latest battleground in
the labor strife between the players and the owners. After the
players voted unanimously to boycott the event last week in the
event of a lockout, USA Basketball announced Tuesday it would send
an alternate team to Athens, one probably composed of players not
in the National Basketball Association.
With no deal in sight, the owners are expected to lock out the
players on July 1 the day after the collective bargaining
agreement expires.
DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: Like, I am a 17-year-old high
school senior (after I finish summer school) working as a clerk at
a video store. Dude, there is this chick I work with who is, like,
SO hot.
First off, what should I do? Second, who's Sylvia Plath? I
checked everywhere, even the cut-out bins at the CD store, and
can't find anything by her.
DEAR RANDY: There is nothing the Answer Man enjoys more than the
romantic entanglements of the immature, self-centered, puerile and
near-illiterate. He has, in fact, considered devoting an entire
column to just this subject, but grew despondent and near-suicidal
when faced with the prospect that there are readers out there who
might actually enjoy reading it.
Failing this, the Answer Man has always found the combination of
a boss muscle car and painful genital self-piercings to be
well-nigh irresistible.
As for Ms. Plath, simply ride out this phase. One can't wear
black for too awfully long without tiring of it. As you might
suggest yourself: Just go do it, dude!
DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: My mother-in-law doesn't like me.
She thinks I am a shrew and a harpie who married her son for his
looks. I love my husband dearly, but he is 75 pounds overweight,
refuses to wash his hair more than once a week and suffers
near-constant, oozing cold sores on his lips.
How do I know my mother-in-law feels this way? She told me. She
lives with us, complicating matters further. My husband refuses to
take sides, and I'm at my wit's end. You're my last resort. Help! Pulling Out My Hair 
DEAR HAIR: Ah, love is such a fragile gift. Call me
old-fashioned, but I gravitate toward the simple approach. Simply
tell your mother-in-law that you married her son for his money.
Then suggest that she might be more comfortable sleeping in the
cellar or the small closet beneath the stairs. The truth is always
best!
DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: Settle a bet between my brother and
me. I say watching Roseanne talk while munching on a loose-meat
sandwich would be more disgusting than watching Robin Williams
shave his back; my brother says I'm wrong. A steak dinner is riding
on your answer! Manny in Montana 
DEAR MONTANA: Alas, looks like Dutch treat for you two siblings I'll go with Bill Clinton wrestling Ken Starr in Speedos. Bon
apetit!
DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: We recently adopted an adorable pit
bull-Rottweiler mix. Naturally, he is rambunctious he's already
killed three neighborhood cats (he brings them home and leaves them
on the doorstep like gifts, the little dear), and has bitten off
the tips of two of my fingers.
My wife lives in constant fear that little Cupcake will
eventually attack our pet python or eat our collection of scorpions
and tarantulas. Our twin sons, now 6, have had the snake as a pet
for as long as they can remember. Please advise. Typing Slowly
Obviously you have a special animal on your hands. I'll be
blunt: You need a larger home. Doubtless, this may seem like a
large investment now, but think of the rewards this little dear
will offer you in the long run!
It's true. There are people who really want to be the voices
answering the phone numbers that consumers or co-workers call when
their computers crash or when they can't figure out the tax code,
hook up that printer or get the dishwasher to scrub pots.
It is no easy job. Personnel at help desks, after all, must
soothe angry customers and solve their problems and then do it
again, maybe 100 times a day, five days a week. They must
understand all the technical details in a user's manual, yet
explain them in layman's terms.
They must be endlessly patient and polite, even when the caller
is neither. And they must do so in an atmosphere in which their
comings and goings, down to essentials like toilet breaks, are
often rigidly controlled.
Such diligent souls are certainly in demand. Personal computers
are ubiquitous. New and often bug-ridden software floods the
market. Complex technology pervades cars, televisions and other
items that were once relatively easy to understand.
Even so, the work does not pay particularly well. Starting
salaries rarely top $30,000 not much for people who often are
middle-aged or college-educated. But as time and expertise accrue,
help desk workers are often promoted to higher levels, at which
they spend less time on the phone and more doing research into
problems. In a few high-technology companies, such support staff
make as much as $100,000.
The demand is overtaxing the supply. For every help desk
employee who regards the job as a career choice, several more are
just trying to scrape together some extra dollars until a better
position opens up.
Some offer months of training and extensive mentoring; others
coach people for a few hours and send them to the phones. Some say
a college degree should be required, some call it irrelevant and
still others contend it is a drawback.
Many help desks now offer frequent raises, bonuses and paid time
off. Many let staff members break from the phones for a few hours
each day to answer e-mail queries or review product literature. And
many now have communications programs, complete with newsletters
and company outings, as well as career-planning sessions.
On the service side, help desk managers are training recruits,
often through role-playing, to manage calls say, how to end them
quickly without making a client feel rushed, or how to demonstrate
empathy.
Companies already give help desk employees fingertip access to
electronic manuals. To further ease demands on their help desk
staff, companies post answers to frequently asked questions on
their Web pages, or accept and answer queries by e-mail assuming,
of course, that the customer's computer is working.
And they are starting to give call center personnel access to
customer accounts help desk staff members at the IRS, for
example, will soon be able to view a caller's tax records and
customize their responses.
Companies are making better use of improved telecommunications
technologies. They are increasingly locating their call centers
near rich veins of potential employees, like suburban homemakers
looking for part-time work. And they are training their employees
to transfer callers with complex questions to specialists located
miles away.
The IRS, for example, will soon offer 24-hour phone access to
prerecorded answers to common questions. It also is assessing its
more than 25,000 help desk employees, and listing their skills in a
data base. The agency wants to spot which workers need extra
training, and it wants to start routing questions to the person
most likely to know the answers.
The unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent in May, from 8.1
percent in April. The office of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said it was
the city's lowest rate since January 1995. The figures still lag
behind the statewide unemployment rate, 5.7 percent, and the
national rate, 4.3 percent.
The mayor's office said 2,900 jobs were created in May, with the
largest numbers generated in sales and in business services, which
include secretarial and clerk-related jobs.
The banking industry, however, lost 100 jobs and the
communications and transportation fields lost about 500. Wall
Street's securities business showed a slight rise of 300 jobs. 
The July issue of Money magazine contains its 12th annual survey
of the best places to live in America sort of.
All this apparently prompted Money editors to rethink their
approach. Initially they were going to kill the survey, but then
decided to run it in a truncated form.
Media reaction around the country has been huge. Local and
regional newspapers gave the survey heavy play, as did did
television and radio news broadcasts. It also made network TV news.
Part of the heavy coverage was because the magazine listed the
Washington metropolitan area as the best big Eastern city in which
to live. And, of course, every city wanted to know its place on the
list.
The Washington selection was a surprise to many who were used to
a litany of bad news coming out of the nation's capital about
crime, drugs and schools. But for the city and its suburbs, clean
air, good health care, low property taxes and cultural institutions
helped tip the scale.
Citing its large middle class and skilled work force, Rogers
thinks India will generate profits for investors over the next 5 to
15 years. He acknowledges however, that this depends on peace in
the region.
POLITICS AND COMPUTERS July's Smart Money, in a Washington
column by Albert R. Hunt and Alan Murray, points to the political
dangers facing Vice President Albert Gore Jr. if the worst fears
about the so-called millennium bug, or the year 2000 problem, are
realized. If the problem spirals out of control, they argue, the
Clinton administration and especially the vice president who has
aligned himself with high-technology issues won't escape the
fallout. This is an issue on which the Republicans are already
sharpening their knives.
MONEY FROM WATER The July issue of Individual Investor explores
ways to profit from water, which is getting increasingly expensive
as its demand soars. For instance, the magazines points out that it
takes 40,000 gallons to produce enough steel for just one car. Some
companies it thinks could profit from this growing demand are
American Water Works, Ionics, Nalco Chemical, United Water
Resources and United States Filter.
DEAL TIME If you were prescient or lucky enough to have
dumped some stock when the Dow topped 9,200 in April and that cash
is burning a hole in your pocket, Money magazine's series of
articles on super deals what the editors call great products at
great prices may be just your thing.
For bargain-hungry shoppers, Money's pick of a high-end outlet
mall is Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Central Valley, N.Y. If
you're in the market for a diaper bag for the baby, the
recommendation goes to a deluxe model from Lands' End for $49.50.
Looking for something a little more exotic? How about a MIG-15 UTI,
a jet trainer used by the Soviet air force in the 1950s and 1960s?
It can be yours, ready to fly, for $110,000 from Fantasy Flyers in
Sante Fe, N.M.
If you like to travel, Money points to a $2,500 around-the-world
ticket offered jointly by Air Canada, Lufthansa, SAS, Thai Airways,
United Airlines and Varig. The ticket is good for up to a year and
you can plan your trip as you go.
But some are refreshingly honest, like Donald Trump's and
Michael Dell's. The Donald cites 40 Wall Street, an office building
he bought for $1 million two and a half years ago that is estimated
to be worth $100 million today. Dell's best deal? The $1,000 he
invested to found the Dell Computer Corp. on May 2, 1984.
ON LINE A new magazine, Online Investor, is aimed at those who
use the Internet for financial research and investing. It is
published every other month by MVP Media in Chicago. Jan Parr, the
editor, said it might go monthly early next year. Money.com, a
one-time special issue by Money magazine on the same subject, will
be on newsstands until Aug. 10. A Money spokeswoman said it could
become a regular publication.
Funds are closing at a record rate this year. But according to a
new report issued by the Kobren Insight Group a lot more of them
should be slamming their doors.
Kobren Insight, an investment management firm in Wellesley
Hills, Mass., lists 11 funds that for various reasons it said
should be closed to new investors.
The reasons cited in the report run the gamut from a fund's
ability to maneuver quickly to over-diversification. What's
surprising is the number of high-performance, high-profile funds
that make the list, among them Janus, Vanguard Windsor II, Fidelity
Equity-Income and Mutual Discovery.
Fund companies are often loath to close even those funds that
have swollen asset bases because the fees they receive are figured
as a percentage of assets under management. The larger the fund,
the bigger the fund company's pay check.
Warburg Pincus holds less than $1 billion, which gives manager
Brian S. Posner, who used to manage Fidelity Equity-Income II,
opportunities that the Fidelity fund is just too large to grab. The
strategies are similar, although the Warburg fund is slightly more
value oriented than the Fidelity fund, Goldfarb said.
Goldfarb said investors should not scramble to buy shares if
these funds announce they will close to new investors. He added
that there's no point in dumping shares, either, if you hold them
in a taxable account and you have large unrealized gains.
Twentieth Century Ultra uses an earnings momentum strategy that
often requires the fund to trade quickly in response to earnings
disappointments or rejiggered forecasts. At $26 billion, it may
soon be too large to move nimbly, Goldfarb said.
Gunnar Hughes, a spokesman for American Century, which runs
Twentieth Century Ultra, said the fund has more good investment
ideas now than the money to buy them, and has experienced no
liquidity problems.
The $22 billion Janus fund is not only a giant in its own right,
it also owns many of the same stocks as other Janus funds. In the
aggregate, then, Janus managers may have trouble moving large
blocks of stock without pushing up market prices, Goldfarb said.
Moreover, the $14 billion Janus Worldwide is still accepting new
investments, while Janus Overseas was closed at just $4.3 billion
earlier this year. At the time, Helen Young Hayes, who runs both
funds, said she was concerned that significant cash coming into the
fund would make her job more difficult. Why not close the larger
fund, too, Goldfarb asked.
Many people have voiced similar concerns since Janus Overseas
was closed to maintain the quality of its performance, a Janus
spokeswoman said.
However, she said, Worldwide can own United States stocks as
well as foreign stocks, and that makes it easier for Ms. Hayes to
maneuver.
They also begin to move more sluggishly, handicapped by their
larger size. Kaufmann is a clear example, said Goldfarb: its
performance has suffered as assets rose to today's $6.4 billion. A
fund official declined to comment.
At the $5.3 billion PBHG Growth fund, liquidity is a concern
because the fund needs to be able to move quickly to execute its
earnings momentum driven strategy, Goldfarb said. Gary Pilgrim, the
manager, said liquidity is less of a problem at lower-turnover
funds like his.
The $4.3 billion Mutual Discovery fund has moved to mid-cap
names in the United States, and its size will lessen its ability to
buy the smaller European stocks that had bolstered its performance,
Goldfarb says.
Robert Friedman, a manager of Mutual Discover, conceded that
Discovery has moved into mid-cap stocks, but noted that these tend
to be less volatile and that managers have more clout with
companies.
Sheer size reduces a fund's ability to add value through some
mid-cap and smaller-cap stocks, especially when funds balloon to
$20 billion or more.
This includes the $26.6 billion Vanguard Windsor II and
Fidelity's $18.7 billion Equity-Income II fund, which Goldfarb
nonetheless rates as buys because of their strong managers. But he
advised investors to select smaller alternatives, if available.
A Vanguard spokesman noted that Windsor II is run by four
different managers who trade independently, adding flexibility that
other large funds may lack. A Fidelity spokesman said the company
would close its funds if it were in the best interest of
shareholders.
T. Rowe Price International Stock fund's $10.6 billion in assets
has forced it to own a large number of stocks, and lose
flexibility. But Steve Norwitz, a T. Rowe Price spokesman, said
size is not an issue because the fund owns large companies and is
diversified internationally.
By the shores of Lake Merced, the veteran from steamy Orlando,
Fla., birdied the final three holes as he came in early with a
stunning 4-under-par 66 in the first round of the US Open.
Mark Carnevale, who has made only four cuts in 14 PGA Tour
events this year, checked in with a bogey-free round of 67. Joe
Durant, who once was so discouraged that he quit the game and has
made just six cuts in 12 tournaments, walked at Carnevale's side
and posted a 69. That was later matched by Tom Lehman, who has led
this championship the last three years entering the final round but
has come up short every time.
Stewart, who won the 1991 US Open at Hazeltine in a playoff with
Simpson, took the past two weeks off and went to Aruba to film a
made-for-TV match with Nick Price, then settled by the pool at his
home in Florida. He was totally relaxed.
His round warmed up on the seventh hole when, from a terrible
lie in the rough, he hit into the fronting bunker and got it up and
down to save par. Then it heated up when he rolled in a downhill
putt from 40 feet on the eighth and made a 15-foot birdie putt on
the ninth to turn in 33.
Durant stirred things up when he birdied four of the first five
holes and, after a three-putt bogey on the sixth, hit a 9-iron into
the par-3 eighth and made a birdie to turn in 31. When he hit a
wedge into the 12th to within a foot, he was 5 under. Joe Durant?
He returned to earth with a three-putt double bogey on the 14th
but sank a 40-foot birdie putt on the 15th. Bogeys at 16 and 17
clouded his moment in the sun.
Embracing a trend that is rapidly reshaping the Internet, Walt
Disney Co. let it be known Thursday that the Tomorrowland of
cyberspace will be entered through a giant consumer gateway cobbled
with the gadgets of interactive technologies and the proven lure of
traditional media news, sports, entertainment and information.
On Thursday, Disney announced a complex deal valued at about
$900 million in which it will buy 43 percent of Infoseek, a service
that helps guide users to what they want on the World Wide Web. The
announcement capped two weeks of fevered developments across media
and technology industries that were too small to shake the
financial markets but obviously a trend that was too significant to
ignore.
Last week, General Electric's NBC unit struck a deal to take
control of Snap, an upstart online directory service, for up to $65
million in cash and more than $100 million in free television
promotions.
On Monday it was reported that ATT had been negotiating to
acquire America Online. And on Tuesday, Microsoft Corp. opened a
public test of its new portal, known as Start, which is expected to
be in full operation by the end of the year.
In the meantime, Netscape Communications Corp. is busy shifting
its focus from making browsers to operating a portal site, and
media giants like Time Warner and News Corp. are looking to build
or buy similar services.
While there are tens of thousands of commercial Web sites, most
of the attention is now focused on the handful that help users find
the information, services or entertainment that they are looking
for. Since many people use these sites to start their treks through
cyberspace, they are far and away the most popular places on the
Internet. As a result, they have attracted the lion's share of
advertising as well as investor interest.
America Online, which 18 months ago was drowning in busy signals
and irate customers, has rebounded into the powerhouse of
cyberspace with 12 million paying customers, a market value of $19
billion and the self assurance to rebuff ATT's takeover offer last
month.
Yahoo, the largest of the free, advertiser-supported portal
services, attracts more than 70 million users a month and has a
value of about $6 billion, despite barely breaking even.
As these sites grow rapidly in market value and viewership if
not profits many media companies are deciding that they need to
buy one quickly, despite the high prices, before they become
unaffordable. More than one media giant has expressed regret for
not having bought America Online when it was much cheaper.
Moreover, as television, telephones and computers all converge
into one integrated network of communications and entertainment,
companies of all sorts see portals as a possible keystone to their
future strategy. The power to funnel users to certain advertisers
and content sites is worth millions of dollars in revenue.
Disney's intention is to create a new Internet service that
combines Infoseek with its existing offerings, which include Web
sites for ABC television, ABC News, the ESPN sports network,
Disney's movies, and a site of original Disney entertainment for
children.
Disney, like many other media companies, has been talking to a
number of portal services over the last year. A few months ago, it
was close to buying a part of Excite, the No. 2 portal service, but
the deal fell apart over the price, investment bankers said.
With the stock of the search services trading at stratospheric
prices, big companies have been loath to buy them either with cash
or their own, more conventionally valued shares.
Disney's deal gets around this problem by trading some of its
own Internet ventures at the high value such companies carry for shares in Infoseek. Specifically, Disney will receive 43
percent of Infoseek in return for $70 million in cash and
relinquishing ownership of Starwave, a company that creates
elaborate Web sites.
Starwave's biggest venture is the sports site it operates on
behalf of ESPN. Disney bought Starwave in several phases over the
last year from Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft. Keith
Benjamin, an analyst for BancAmerica Robertson Stephens, estimated
that Disney paid about $400 million for Starwave and that it would
be worth about $800 million if it were an independent company.
Thursday's announcement represented something of an about-face
for Disney. When it bought full control of Starwave two months ago,
it announced plans to integrate the Seattle-based technology
company with its own Internet operations in Burbank, Calif. Now,
all of Starwave will become part of Infoseek, which has
headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., in Silicon Valley.
Disney also agreed to lend Infoseek up to $139 million over the
next five years in return for the option to bring its ownership to
50.1 percent. Disney, however, will get back most of the cash it is
spending, as Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million in advertising
from Disney over the next three years. That money will buy both
television advertising on ABC and promotion at other Disney
operations, like the Internet pavilion at Disney World.
NBC's deal to buy a stake in Snap was much more favorable to the
shareholders of Cnet, the company that owned the portal, Benjamin
said. In particular, it will provide more than $100 million in free
television advertising.
NBC, however, has much more limited ambitions for Snap, a
service with well-regarded technology and very few users. The
television network hopes that heavy TV promotions will turn Snap
into a popular, stand-alone guide service. NBC's other Internet
activities, especially its MSNBC news service operated with
Microsoft, will remain separate from Snap.
Disney, by contrast, is looking to merge its properties into a
unified service that will have more of the cohesive feel that
America Online has.
Right now, America Online charges users a $22 monthly fee for
both access to the Internet and its own content. Portal services
like Infoseek and Snap have been free to users. But Winebaum of
Disney said the company hopes to come up with extra services for
which users will pay fees. Disney's ESPN site earns half its
revenue, for example, from add-on services like fantasy sports
leagues.
Even as the big media companies are buying the existing portal
sites, many other companies of all sorts are jockeying for position
to earn money as Internet Gateways. Smaller sites that began
offering specialized services are now trying to emulate the look
and features of sites like Yahoo.
The most feared is Microsoft's Start, because it will be the
first page seen by users of the Internet Explorer browser software
that is now part of the Windows operating system. Meanwhile
Netscape, whose software business has been devastated by Microsoft,
has been trying to turn its often visited but dreary home page into
a service with as much news and information as the other portal
sites.
And Compaq Computer is even trying to turn its products into
portals by installing several buttons on its computer keyboards
that direct users to certain Web sites.
Analysts said that all these moves represent the massing of
forces for what will shape up to be a long and brutal war over
which two or three portal services will become dominant.
With the stakes in the online world far lower a few years ago,
America Online spent a $1 billion on television advertising and
distribution of sign-up disks to surge past its rivals, Prodigy and
Compuserve.
WASHINGTON In an unusually sharp rebuke of his party leader,
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato on Thursday urged Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott to allow a vote on the nomination of James Hormel as
ambassador to Luxembourg.
The nomination of Hormel, a Democratic contributor from San
Francisco who is heir to the meat-packing fortune, was approved by
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on a 16-to-2 vote last fall.
But Lott, at the request of a small group of conservative senators,
has refused to move the nomination to the floor.
D'Amato, who has supported gay rights in the past, is running
for a fourth term this year and is seeking endorsements from gay
groups. His letter comes four days after Lott said in a television
interview that he considered homosexuality a sin.
Feinstein said she believed that more than 60 senators support
Hormel, enough votes to overcome any effort to block the nomination
through a filibuster if it reaches the floor.
Officials with one of the groups that D'Amato is courting, Human
Rights Campaign, praised D'Amato's letter and said that he was very
much in the running for their endorsement.
Ms. Stachelberg said D'Amato had opposed efforts to deny federal
financing to organizations that serve homosexuals, and had been a
supporter of homosexuals serving in the military and a sponsor of
legislation to prohibit job discrimination against gay men and
lesbians.
But officials with a New York gay rights group, Empire State
Pride Agenda, criticized D'Amato on Thursday for not doing enough
to pressure the Republicans who control the New York state Senate
to allow a floor vote on legislation that would prohibit
discrimination against homosexuals. The bill was still locked in
committee Thursday as the Legislature neared the end of this year's
session.
D'Amato, who is viewed as the leader of the state Republican
Party, called Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno last week to urge
him to allow a vote. But he did not lobby individual senators, said
Matt Foreman, executive director of Empire State Pride Agenda.
NEW YORK In 1972, Claus Reinisch had an idea for improving the
traffic flow in mid-Manhattan: confine pedestrians to one side of
the street when they are crossing major avenues. For example, they
would have to stick to the north side to get across southbound
Fifth Avenue. That way, he said, cars would have an easier time
turning into the avenue from side streets, and the backup of
crosstown traffic would be reduced.
Reinisch, who used to be the district manager of Community Board
1 in Manhattan, sent his suggestion to Dry Dock Savings Bank. Dry
Dock, requiescat in pace, was soliciting thoughts on how to unclog
New York's boulevards, sclerotic even then. In February 1972, it
printed 11 proposals in a full-page advertisement in The New York
Times, and one of them was Reinisch's.
If his idea rings a bell, it should. It is the very premise
underlying the ballyhooed pedestrian barriers that Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani set up six months ago along 49th and 50th streets. Only
Reinisch thought of it 26 years ago.
Why mention this now? Certainly not to accuse the Police
Department's barricades guru, Chief Allan Hoehl, of stealing
someone else's brainchild. It is merely to keep the record straight no small matter, given how the Giuliani administration wants
everyone to believe that before it came on the scene, City Hall was
an idea-free zone.
With the mayor backpedaling on his plan to banish sidewalk
vendors from many street corners, it seemed reasonable to check out
other pillars of his vaunted quality-of-life campaign. Might the
bugler be sounding retreat on the midtown barricades, too?
It did not look like it Thursday. They were still there, all
right. So were the usual police officers standing guard, looking
bored and muttering off the record about their talents being
squandered.
That is not entirely accurate. While many New Yorkers still feel
that the barricades were shoved down their throats by a zero-sum
mayor who loves above all to get his way, the police hierarchy
pronounces itself satisfied.
Comparative police studies done in October and January, several
weeks after the, uh, facilitators were installed, found that the
average car speed along 49th Street had increased by 13 percent, to
6.2 mph, from 5.5. The increase was even bigger on 50th Street: 21
percent, to 5.8 mph, from 4.8.
A separate police survey in the barrier area, which stretches
from Third Avenue to Avenue of the Americas, showed that it took
18.2 minutes to make a round trip, back and forth, along 47th and
48th streets. The time for 49th and 50th streets was only 12.7
minutes.
But McShane acknowledged that the police had not bothered to
examine how much time pedestrians lose zigzagging their way now
along the barricaded streets. That, you would think, is worth
knowing.
If you have not been to midtown lately, traffic most days is as
congealed as a day-old lamb chop. Reinisch, for one, feels that
little has been done to crack down on the likes of double-parked
limos, tourist buses that sit forever in no-standing zones and
endless street fairs that back up traffic for blocks around.
SAN FRANCISCO On a day when it was difficult to birdie any
holes, Payne Stewart did some special things Thursday in the first
round of the U.S. Open. He birdied the final three holes. He made
just one bogey on the picturesque but lethal Lake course at the
Olympic Club, a place that left many competitors complaining,
cursing and putting some strange numbers on their scorecards.
So when the day had ended, Stewart was on top of his game and on
top of the leaderboard. Shooting a well-earned four-under-par 66,
Stewart held a one-stroke lead over the surprising Mark Carnevale.
Tom Lehman and Joe Durant were in a tie for third at 68, with some
golfers still on the course. Other prominent names like John Daly
(69) and Jasper Parnevik (69) lurked within contention.
The U.S. Open is more like a sprint than a marathon, so Stewart
had no plans to begin writing a victory speech. But for Stewart,
who has won two major championships, the 1989 PGA Championship and
the 1991 U.S. Open, Thursday's round was a pleasant reminder that
when at his best, Stewart can play with anyone.
Stewart spoke the truth. Some of the game's greatest players
were forced to struggle on some holes like weekend duffers. There
were big numbers all over the board, and some pre-tournament
favorites like David Duval (75), Ernie Els (75), and Davis Love
(78) were in danger of missing Friday's cut. Stewart's playing
partners, Curtis Strange (77) and Hale Irwin (80), both strugggled.
The course played as tough as advertised, with the 6-inch deep
rough, narrow sloping fairways and small greens making every hole
difficult. Heaven forbid if the wind starts to blow this weekend,
because that will make the Olympic Club even more of a torture
chamber.
For Stewart, playing steadily was a strong statement for someone
who has not won on the PGA Tour since the 1995 Shell Houston Open.
There have been times during the past two years when Stewart has
drawn more attention for his knickers than for his game, and it has
been frustrating for him not to play at the level he did during the
late 1980s and early '90s when he was one of the world's best. Yet,
at 42, Stewart has reached a time when his experience is an asset,
and he still has the ability to play at a high level.
Thursday was one of those days, and his finish was
extraordinary. Reaching the 16th tee at one-under par, Stewart
started his string of three consecutive birdies, a finish that may
not be equaled all week. At the par-5, 609-yard No. 16, Stewart hit
a 9-iron approach shot to within 8 feet, then made the putt. Then
Stewart went to the par-4, 468-yard No. 17, one of the toughest
holes in golf that is usually a par-5 for members. Stewart hit a
driver, then a 2-iron shot that stopped 45-feet in front of the
hole. Stewart lined up the long putt, hit it confidently and made
it. When the putt went in, Stewart shook his body as if he had been
electrocuted.
While Stewart's round was not a total shock, Carnevale's round
was. Carnevale played on the Nike Tour last year, and his best PGA
Tour finish this year is a tie for 41st place.
Durant was the only player who reached five under par Thursday,
but then double-bogeyed No. 14. Danger lurked at every hole.
Olympic features a brutal start. No. 3, No. 4 and No. 5 are ranked
the second, third and fourth hardest holes on the course
respectively. Get through that stretch, and you are still faced
with the rough and the tiny greens. And Thursday's pin placements
were difficult.
But Thursday night, Stewart could rest more easily than most. He
had one good day in the bank. And that was more than many others
could say.
ELMONT, N.Y. The best fillies in the East including last
year's champion and two arriving with five-race winning streaks will compete at Belmont Park Saturday in the Hempstead Handicap,
running a mile and one-sixteenth for a purse of $250,000 and a
major credential in the race for division honors.
The champion is Ajina, the winner of the Breeders' Cup Distaff
last November and the Eclipse Award as the 3-year-old filly
champion. She will be the overnight favorite at 6-5 for her
trainer, Bill Mott, and her jockey, Mike Smith. But Ajina will have
to outrun Glitter Woman, trained by Shug McGaughey with Jerry
Bailey riding and a record that shouts. In 13 of her 15 starts,
Glitter Woman has run first or second.
Ajina and Glitter Woman, who have each earned more than $1
million, should get a run for their money from the two fillies
coming into the Hempstead with the five-race winning streaks:
Colonial Minstrel, who has run in the money 12 times in 14 starts,
and Mossflower, a daughter of Affirmed, who has started just five
times but won them all. And everybody will be keeping an eye on the
two fillies who complete the field, Dixie Flag and Royal Indy, both
trained by Allen Jerkens.
Mossflower will be running her first stakes race, and her
trainer, Richie Schosberg, sees nothing but class in her path.
This evil is insidious, like all the worst evils: vampires,
lobbyists, the bubonic plague. It moves with utmost stealth,
thrives on lack of vigilance. Relax for an eye's blink, and boom.
Somehow, niceties like that, the real fallout from the 1970s,
get skipped by those rejoicing over hiphuggers, tube tops and Kool
and the Gang. We also don't hear much about that other legacy of
the Disco Age.
I am speaking of Richard Nixon and Watergate, of 1974 and his
plane out of D.C. Three Mile Island, the Bee Gees, polyester mercifully, those afflictions came and went. But nothing has
stitched the tear between politicians and people.
The 1970s brought us all that. Thus, the decade begs for
execution. Instead, its corpse keeps jumping up for one more chance
to do The Hustle. A MERCY KILLING
Man, this decade has been on the way back for so long, I can't
wait until it finally gets here. So we can jab a stake through its
heart.
Or drown it in Billy Beer. Or coat it in Jovan Musk Oil for Men.
Whatever it takes to kill the '70s.
KC, Your Boogie Man, must've tripped on his Boogie Shoes and
smacked his head while (Shake, Shake, Shake) Shaking His Booty
because he was so wrong.
Only 14 months ago, after time out for basketball and broken
legs, she started competing again in track and field. Two months
later, she won national championships in the 100-meter dash and the
long jump. Two months after that, she won those events in the world
championships in Athens.
Here, in the U.S championships Friday through Sunday, she is
favored to win three titles the 100 and 200 meters and the long
jump. That Jesse Owens-Carl Lewis type of triple was last
accomplished in the women's competition by Stella Walsh in 1948.
It also keeps it scary because the three rounds of the 100, the
three rounds of the 200 and the long jump are crammed into three
days. Saturday can be especially hazardous, with the 100 final at 7
p.m., Eastern time; the long jump at 8 and the 200 quarterfinals at
8:50.
She has been a star from the time she entered her teens, and in
1992 she made the U.S. Olympic team as a relay alternate. But her
mother thought it was too much too soon for a 15-year-old, so the
daughter stayed home.
North Carolina won the battle of college recruiters by allowing
her to double in track and basketball. She became the fastest point
guard alive, but in the summer of 1995 she broke her left foot
playing basketball and in January 1996 she broke it again doing a
long-jump drill on a trampoline. She missed the 1996 track season,
watching the Olympics from the same place as in 1992 in front of
a television set. She finished her senior year of basketball, then
had to make a choice.
This year, she is the world leader in the 100 meters (10.71
seconds), the 200 (21.94 seconds) and the long jump (23 feet 11 3/4
inches). The respective world records for those events are 10.49
and 21.34 seconds, both by Florence Griffith Joyner of the United
States, and 24 feet 8 1/4 inches by Galina Chistyakova of the
Soviet Union. All three records were set in 1988.
The Grand Prix meet scheduled for July 25 in Durham, N.C., has
been moved to Edwardsville, Ill., and will be called the U.S. Open:
Track and Field's Farewell to JJK. JJK is 36-year-old Jackie
Joyner-Kersee, who was raised in that area and is retiring after
three Olympic gold medals and five world records in the heptathlon
and the long jump.
NEW YORK Amid a surging demand to produce films in New York
City, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's administration has promised a pair
of young entrepreneurs a lease to build a major Hollywood-style
movie studio in the Brooklyn Navy Yard provided they can obtain
$190 million in financing by December.
The plan, the most ambitious of several proposals for new sound
stages and film studios in the city, represents a gambit by two
little-known players in an industry defined by fast fame and
fortune. If they succeed in attracting the financing, they would be
granted a 70-year lease on 15 acres of the Navy Yard.
The site is among the city's most famous pieces of industrial
real estate, since it includes the cavernous shipbuilding structure
that produced the U.S.S. Missouri and other warships during World
War II.
No government incentives are being offered beyond those that
would be granted any industrial concern taking space in the city.
And entertainment industry executives said the plan could be
undermined by the relative inexperience of the partners, or by a
tendency of some producers to regard Brooklyn as a tawdry stepchild
to Manhattan.
Still, the Navy Yard proposal resonates with an odd blend of New
York City history, entrepreneurial drive, the promise of an
industrial renaissance and an unlikely alignment of forces on Wall
Street and at City Hall.
On Wall Street, the project's chief financial adviser is J.P.
Morgan, where investment bankers who specialize in media and
entertainment have been approaching corporate finance and Hollywood
executives to cover the anticipated $190 million in development
costs.
Among the advantages of the Navy Yard, he said, is the sheer
availability of space, its ready access to major highways, its
isolation from residential areas and its proximity to the hotels
and other amenities of Manhattan. He said he expected financing for
the project to be in place by September. If so, construction could
begin by early next year, and the first production could start a
year later.
For many producers, the key advantage of having a full-service
studio in New York would be that it would eliminate the need to
travel back and forth between California sound stages and
production sites in the East.
The authors of the Navy Yard proposal, who would control what
they are calling simply New York Studios Inc., are Louis Madigan, a
jocular, 30-year-old computer consultant and Internet whiz, and
Cary Dean Hart, 35, a movie-set designer.
The two men said they approached J.P. Morgan and the Navy Yard's
directors with their idea a year ago, and in March were given the
conditional promise of a 70-year lease. If financing is obtained
and the studio built, their payments would be $16,250 a month, an
amount that would triple after five years of operation.
While neither Madigan nor Hart brings the credentials that would
assure them a good seat at a Hollywood restaurant, both have
personal and professional connections to the Navy Yard.
Madigan, a stalwart in New York City's burgeoning new-media
industry, is a Brooklyn native and the grandson of a Navy engine
mechanic who, with the rest of his World War II crew, received a
presidential citation for work in the Navy Yard on the U.S.S.
Missouri.
Both men say New York Studios was the idea of Hart, whose set
design company, Delphi Studios, set up shop in a Navy Yard
warehouse in 1991.
The Navy Yard plan is far from the only studio production
venture being promoted at a time when demand for existing studios
and sound stages has never been more intense.
But entertainment industry executives said most, if not all, of
the other proposals are for studios that would be dedicated to
television, while the far larger studio envisioned at the Navy Yard
would also be suitable for movie production.
There is ample reason to be skeptical of any offer from the
speaker. To sabotage a debate in March, Gingrich tried to foist a
phony bill on the House. He later spoke of a vote in May, and now
he is talking July. It all adds up to a speaker on the run,
improvising to forestall the inevitable. The handshake Thursday
between Shays and Dick Armey, the majority leader, amounts to the
first firm promise of an actual vote.
The evidence is mounting, moreover, that the Shays-Meehan
legislation, co-sponsored by Rep. Martin Meehan of Massachusetts,
is picking up steam. This page had urged that supporters of
Shays-Meehan, which would ban unlimited contributions to parties by
corporations, unions and rich donors, reject a separate bill
calling for a study commission. The fear was that the commission
might pass by a small margin, and that the Shays-Meehan bill would
have to pass by an even bigger margin to become law. On Wednesday
night the commission was actually defeated, 201-156, sending a
thunderbolt into Gingrich's office.
The speaker then began to worry that enough Republicans might
defect and join with the Democrats to reject a special rule
governing the debate, which would have allowed for the
death-by-amendment scheme. If the rule had gone down to defeat, the
speaker would effectively have lost control of his own House.
Democrats were angry that Shays agreed to support the rule in
return for Armey's promise to schedule a vote. But this is a game
that requires some gambles.
The defeat of the commission measure suggested that there are 30
to 50 moderate Republicans ready to declare their independence from
the leadership and join with perhaps 190 Democrats to put the
measure over the top this summer. It would then have to go back to
the Senate, where a clear majority are also on record as favoring
reform but saw it killed last year because of a filibuster under
the direction of Trent Lott, the majority leader.
We remain convinced that if the Shays-Meehan bill passes this
summer and goes back to the Senate, Lott will not be able to
control his members and make them dance to the tune of jangling
cash registers. There will, we predict, be enough Republicans in
the Senate as the election approaches to break the filibuster and
pass reform. It is anything but a sure thing, but this is no time
to give up. 
NEW YORK About 13,000 members of the largest union
representing New York City hospital workers rallied along Broadway
in midtown Manhattan on Thursday afternoon, vowing to strike if 35
private hospitals do not offer them a satisfactory new contract by
June 30.
Gathering in Central Park and marching down Broadway to an
elaborate soundstage erected in front of the Crowne Plaza Hotel on
48th Street the site of negotiations between the hospitals and
the union leaders of the march threatened a walkout by 50,000
workers in 35 hospitals if the hospitals do not accede to their
demands.
The two sides have been negotiating in the hotel for the last
two weeks. They held talks Thursday morning, suspended them during
the demonstration and resumed them Thursday evening. The two sides
are at odds over job security, a pay increase and potential
layoffs, among other issues.
Industry officials say the city's hospitals are underused and
have estimated that a staff reduction of more than 15 percent will
be needed in the next three to seven years. Union officials say
those estimates are exaggerated, and insist that through early
retirements, attrition and other means, large-scale layoffs can by
avoided.
The demonstration, which organizers said 22,000 people attended,
snarled traffic in midtown for several hours as police blocked off
at least 10 blocks of Broadway beginning at 3 p.m. But the
demonstrators, who assembled in Central Park at 3 p.m., did not
start marching down Broadway until after 5 p.m.
PHOENIX Randy Hinkle won the contest Thursday, but it's the
doctor who will make the final cut.
Hinkle was a virile competitor, nearly tipping his 15-horsepower
John Deere mower as he rounded the final turn, sputtering towards
the finish line at the course set up at Los Arcos Mall in
Scottsdale.
Other men watching the festivities would have raced to avoid a
vasectomy. But Hinkle, 42, was eager to claim the prize.
Hinkle bested two opponents, Jesse Mason and Chris Carlile, to
win his date with the doctor. The losers got KSLX-FM T-shirts as
consolation prizes.
Each day this week, the station is hosting a lawn mower contest,
buying the winner a vasectomy in honor of Father's Day.
Other men wanted to race the riding mowers. But they turned pale
and slinked back into the crowd after hearing the V-word.
Evidence keeps mounting that the Chinese army is exploiting
flawed American export controls to acquire sophisticated satellite
communications technology for military and intelligence use. The
Pentagon and State Department are now questioning the pending sale
of a Hughes communications satellite whose upgraded design would
let Chinese authorities eavesdrop on mobile telephone conversations
at home and abroad. President Clinton should suspend this sale and
the licensing of any more satellite deals with China until export
control rules are tightened. In particular, he needs to put the
State and Defense departments back in charge of export approvals
and diminish the role of the Commerce Department.
Communications satellites must be carefully watched because they
have both military and civilian uses. Satellites for civilian
mobile telephones can be used by China's army to communicate with
remote field units. When equipped with powerful antennas and
computers, they can spy on other countries' communications systems.
In the mid-1990s, with China's own communications satellites
wearing out, military leaders set out to find foreign-built
replacements. The Clinton administration initially approved the
Hughes sale, it now says, after being advised that the Chinese
could purchase similar communications technology from European
sources. But since that approval, the project has been modified by
adding a more powerful antenna. It is not clear that China could
obtain comparable equipment from Europe.
Critics have suggested that the administration loosened the
rules on satellite sales because of large campaign contributions to
the Democratic Party from the American aerospace industry and, it
appears, Chinese military officials. In late 1996, the same year
Clinton initially approved the Hughes satellite, he granted the
aerospace industry a change in export licensing procedures.
Satellite licensing authority was shifted from the State and
Defense departments, whose concern is national security, to the
Commerce department, which promotes business deals.
But in a country like China, where aerospace and communications
companies have close links to the army and government, these deals
are rarely purely commercial. Clinton should work with Congress and
the intelligence agencies to evaluate any damage done and develop a
sounder policy. 
MONTREAL Montreal Manager Felipe Alou not only is Mel Rojas'
uncle, but also used to be his manager. That was when Rojas was at
his best as a reliever, from 1994-96. Now, Rojas, 31, is struggling
in his role as the Mets' setup man.
After Rojas had picked up the loss in Wednesday night's 5-4
victory over the Expos, the right-handed pitcher said one of the
reasons he has struggled this year against right-handed hitters is
because he throws so many more fastballs to them than to
left-handed hitters, against whom his main weapon is his
split-finger fastball.
L. Edwin Smart, a former chairman and chief executive of Trans
World Airlines, died June 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center
in New York. He was 74 and lived in New York.
Smart became chairman and chief executive of TWA in 1977 and was
named chairman and chief executive of Transworld Corp., a holding
company formed when the airline was restructured in 1978.
The conglomerate spun off TWA in 1983, after defeating a
takeover bid by Texas International Airlines, which was led by
Frank Lorenzo. TWA was eventually purchased by Carl Icahn in 1985.
Smart sold Transworld's hotel division in 1986, and liquidated
most of the assets to avoid an acquisition by Ronald Perelman, the
takeover investor and chairman of Revlon Inc. The resulting
company, called TW Services, was devoted to the food services
industry. Smart left in April 1987. In 1989, TW Services was
acquired by Coniston Partners, a New York investment firm.
Louis Edwin Smart graduated from Harvard University in 1947, and
Harvard Law School in 1949, both with magna cum laude degrees. He
joined Hughes, Hubbard Reed (then Hughes, Hubbard Ewing) that
year, and became a partner in 1957. During his tenure at the firm,
one of his major clients was Bendix Corp.
In 1964, Smart was named president of the international division
of Bendix, a position he held until he joined TWA as an executive
vice president in 1967.
In addition to his wife, Smart is survived by a daughter,
Cynthia S., of San Antonio; two sons, Dana G., of Long Beach,
Calif., and Douglas E., of Madison, Conn., and five grandchildren.
Forrest Hunter Kirkpatrick, a retired educator, corporate
executive and management consultant on personnel administration and
industrial relations, died May 31 at the Ohio Valley Medical Center
in Wheeling, W.Va. He was 92 and lived in Wheeling.
He had long associations with Bethany College in West Virginia
and Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. In the 1940s, on a leave of
absence from the college, he organized a personnel administration
program for Radio Corp. of America and then served RCA as an
educational consultant until 1960.
He graduated from Bethany College in 1927 and earned a master's
degree at Columbia University in 1931. He was a professor and dean
at Bethany from 1927 to 1940 and again from 1946 to 1952.
In 1952 he was named assistant to the chairman at what was then
Wheeling Steel. He retired from the company as a vice president and
secretary in 1970.
Over the years he served as a consultant to various federal
departments and agencies.
NEW YORK Bowing to pressure from federal prosecutors, the New
York City Police Department has agreed to overhaul its system for
investigating sexual harassment complaints and
gender-discrimination charges within the department.
The policy changes came as part of a settlement, announced
Thursday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, of a lawsuit the
government filed against the department. The department has also
agreed to strengthen its policy against displaying pornographic
materials in station houses, to increase the staffing of its Office
of Equal Opportunity Employment to 30 investigators, from 20, and
to start mandatory programs to teach all 38,000 officers and
commanders procedures for preventing and reporting sexual
harassment.
The U.S. attorney's office sought the stricter standards two
years ago, after a former police officer filed a lawsuit alleging
that her commanders at the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, Queens, had
ignored complaints that male officers routinely watched
pornographic movies in the lounge of the station house and posted
photographs of naked women on the station's walls.
After reviewing the officer's charges, Mary Jo White, the U.S
attorney for the Southern District, also sued the department,
saying that tougher standards and more vigilant enforcement were
needed to protect female police employees.
The lawsuit was the first of its kind to be filed by the
government against a city police department, and Ms. White said
Thursday that the settlement, which allows the U.S. attorney to
review all of the department's harassment investigations, was an
encouraging sign that police commanders might improve their efforts
in the future.
Deborah Zoland, the police lawyer who negotiated the settlement,
said the lengthy court battle helped police commanders improve
their policies by viewing their anti-harassment measures from an
outside perspective. Ms. Zoland said the pact would ultimately make
the department more active in preventing workplace harassment.
Ms. Goff's complaint also charged that a supervisor once
humiliated her in front of other officers by suggesting she have a
bulletproof vest specially designed to accommodate her breasts. Ms.
Goff, who no longer works for the department, has an unlisted
telephone number and could not be reached for comment.
Police policy already forbids officers to display inappropriate
material in department buildings, but under the guidelines adopted
Thursday, the desk commanders in each precinct must now inspect
their buildings at the start of each shift and immediately
confiscate any pornography. Police officials also agreed to add new
sections to the department's patrol guide that strengthen the
requirements to report any harassment and to include a new section
in supervisors' performance evaluations that grades their
sensitivity to harassment complaints.
But neither federal officials nor police commanders would
discuss how the settlement would affect another recent sexual
harassment case in the Police Department. In that case, Police
Commissioner Howard Safir overruled the recommendation of his
commissioner for Equal Employment Opportunity that a high-level
commander be disciplined for failing to respond properly to a
female officer's harassment charges.
Richard Holbrooke is living proof that you do not have to win
friends to influence people. The most undiplomatic of diplomats, he
is nevertheless persuasive enough to be a good choice for the post
of Washington's representative to the United Nations. The man he
replaces, Bill Richardson, is his stylistic opposite, an
Olympic-class schmoozer. He, in turn, knows Washington and the
relevant issues well enough to make a solid energy secretary.
One of the few things these two men share is friendship with Al
Gore and a fervent and not entirely disinterested desire to see him
president. Richardson, conscious that voters do not always reward
foreign policy expertise, has talked about running for governor or
senator in his home state of New Mexico, and some reports have Gore
eyeing him as a possible running mate. The post of energy secretary
will give him cabinet-level experience in a domestic issue, one of
particular importance to New Mexico, home of the Los Alamos and
Sandia nuclear laboratories. But he will lose political stature if
he uses the post to promote pork projects for his home state.
Much has been made of the rivalry between Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright and Holbrooke, who nearly had her job. It is
true that Holbrooke has a reputation as a difficult man who
sometimes verges on self-parody. But he is also seriously concerned
about the moral dimensions of foreign policy and the use of
American influence. He will be a valuable ally for Albright in
administration discussions and help her counter the Pentagon, which
has drawn President Clinton into bad decisions on such issues as
land mines.
Holbrooke will not charm his U.N. colleagues. Indeed, many U.N.
officials who worked with him when he successfully led the Bosnian
peace negotiations were put off by what they and numerous others perceived as his arrogance. But head-cracking has served him, and
American interests, well in the past. 
Cardinal John Joseph Carberry, who was a canon lawyer active in
the Roman Catholic Church's affairs and who led the Archdiocese of
St. Louis for 11 years, died on Wednesday at St. Agnes Home in
Kirkwood, Mo. He was 93.
Carberry was installed in 1968 by Pope Paul VI as archbishop of
St. Louis, the spiritual leader of more than 500,000 Roman
Catholics. He succeeded the late Cardinal Joseph Ritter and, like
him, made civil rights a central issue in his tenure. Carberry was
also a leading national figure in ecumenism with the Protestant
churches. He was named archbishop emeritus in 1979 at 75, the
retirement age set by the Vatican.
Carberry was considered more theologically conservative than his
predecessor as archbishop and was chosen with particular care by
the Vatican in light of an initiative by a group of diocesan
priests and laymen who wrote a program in 1965 that questioned
traditional doctrines and practices.
The pope elevated him to cardinal in 1969, when he was the
bishop of Columbus, Ohio, as someone likely to maintain discipline
among the rank and file and diocesan laity. In fact, he became
known in St. Louis as the creator of the Archdiocesan Pro-Life
Commission, a model for anti-abortion groups in church
jurisdictions around the United States. It was also noted that his
administration left the archdiocese in sound financial condition.
He was respected for his careful, scholarly preparation for
meetings. He took part in all four sessions of the Vatican Council
convened by Pope Paul XXIII and missed only a day and a half as the
council sessions stretched from 1962 to 1965.
Carberry sat in the two conclaves of 1978 that elected Pope John
Paul I and, after his sudden death, John Paul II, the first
non-Italian pontiff since 1523.
A native of New York City, Carberry began to study for the
priesthood at 15 at Cathedral College Seminary in Brooklyn. He was
ordained a priest of the Diocese of Brooklyn at the North American
College in Rome in 1929.
Returning to the United States, Carberry received a doctorate in
canon law at Catholic University of America in 1934, was secretary
to the bishop of Trenton, N.J., and returned to Brooklyn in 1940 to
teach at the diocesan seminary. Pope Pius XII named him bishop of
Lafayette, Ind., in 1957, and Pope Paul named him bishop of
Columbus in 1965.
He was elected vice president of the National Conference of
Catholic Bishops in 1974 and was a U.S. delegate to the World Synod
of Bishops in 1972, 1974 and 1976. He was a past chairman of the
Bishops' Committee for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs.
In retirement, he remained active in church life and community
affairs in St. Louis until he suffered a stroke in 1988.
Yet in their silver-screen debut a $70 million, two-hour
action-packed adventure that opens today Scully and Mulder are
not traveling to a land where no man has gone before.
According to ACNielsen EDI research, the average gross for
movies made from television shows this decade is $60.6 million. The
average for all other films in wide release is $35.2 million.
If the celebration turns out to be profitable, the possibilities
for television producers who want to make movies is nearly endless,
Borys said.
But Borys doesn't think just anyone can do it. Sitcoms couldn't
make the translation, he said.
For the second time in little more than a month, a girl was
raped in the main branch of Newark's public library, police and
library officials said Thursday.
On Wednesday, a 16-year-old girl who was a regular patron of the
library on Washington Street was attacked amid stacks of fiction
books on the second floor of the four-story building after a man
asked her to help him find material for a book report, said
Detective Rocco Malanga of the Newark Police Department. The
attacker was described as a light-skinned Hispanic man with
red-streaked brown hair and brown eyes, Malanga said.
The latest attack came just five weeks after a 15-year-old girl
told police she had been raped in a second-floor restroom by a man
who threatened to kill her if she screamed for help, Malanga said.
Three days after that rape, which occurred on May 13, police
arrested Jason Yantin, 18, of Newark, and charged him with
aggravated sexual assault and endangering the welfare of a minor.
Boyd said that library officials had already closed the
second-floor restrooms in response to the first rape and had forced
patrons to ask for a key to those on the first floor, which can now
be used by only one person at a time. He said officials increased
the number of security guards in the library Thursday to five from
three, and planned to install 10 to 15 security cameras.
NEW YORK Melvin Barnet, who was among several editors and
reporters questioned by a congressional committee investigating
communist affiliations in the news business in the 1950s and who
was dismissed by The New York Times after invoking the Fifth
Amendment, died June 17 at Long Island College Hospital in
Brooklyn. He was 83 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
The subcommittee had been looking into disclosures made by
Winston Burdett, a CBS correspondent who said he had joined the
Communist Party in the late 1930s while working at The Brooklyn
Eagle. As the opening witness in the subcommittee hearings, Burdett
named 12 former colleagues at The Eagle, including Barnet, as party
members.
When, two weeks later, Barnet, a Harvard graduate and an Army
veteran of World War II, was asked about these and other names, he
repeated his refusal to comment, citing the constitutional
protection against self-incrimination.
In that period, characterized by fears of Soviet espionage and
communist-hunting by Sen. Joseph McCarthy, R-Wis., such responses
were at times offered by witnesses who believed it dishonorable to
name old colleagues and implicate them in their own troubles.
Seven employees of the news department were called before the
Eastland subcommittee; six provided accounts of their communist
backgrounds to the editors of The Times, and remained in their
jobs.
After he was fired, Barnet had difficulty finding work. He
picked oranges in Florida, served as cook on a shrimp boat and
edited manuscripts for vanity presses before joining The Medical
Tribune, a journal distributed to doctors, in the 1960s. He was
associate editor when he retired in 1978.
He is survived by his wife, Joan; a son, Michael Cross-Barnet of
Santa Monica, Calif.; a brother, Stuart, and a sister, Beverly
Morrison, both of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
The incident in New Jersey in which five gunshots were fired
into the house of a sex offender shows how vulnerable these
individuals are to vigilante actions. New Jersey Attorney General
Peter Verniero has vowed to prosecute the unknown shooters and is
directing local authorities to increase community education efforts
to prevent vigilantism, but such measures do not correct the
problem inherent in the state's sex-offender notification law.
New Jersey's law provides notification to community groups,
schools and even whole neighborhoods. The information inevitably
spreads far beyond the neighborhood, and the broader the
dissemination, the greater the risk of trouble. In 1995, two men
broke into a house and beat a New Jersey man whom they mistakenly
thought was a sex offender.
In the shooting case, the offender, Frank Penna, was convicted
of kidnapping and rape in 1976. He has been out on parole since
1992. Under the New Jersey law, offenders who have been out of
prison for up to 15 years are still subject to community
notification requirements.
Penna's neighbors had no reason to believe him a danger until
they were notified of his criminal record two weeks ago. The threat
he poses to the community is theoretical. But the bullets
apparently meant for him were very real. They could easily have
injured or killed his neighbors. That irony should not be lost on
those who think notification promotes public safety without also
exacting a cost.
SEATTLE The Asian flu is bearing down on Boeing and could cost
the company 90 commercial jet orders over the next five years. But
the Asia-Pacific region will regain long-term economic health,
remaining the world's largest market for passenger airplanes,
Boeing's vice president for marketing predicted Thursday.
Boeing's annual look 20 years into the future shows that
Asia-Pacific airlines will buy 4,760 new commercial jets, worth
$427 billion. That's compared with $332 billion worth of aircraft
from North America and $345 billion in Europe. China alone is
expected to buy 1,800 new aircraft worth $125 billion over the next
two decades.
He said several Asian airlines have requested help from Boeing
in financing new airplane orders and some have postponed taking
delivery of their new jets because they can't afford them.
He said some Asian economies will fall into a recession in the
next 12 to 18 months, though historical growth trends will return
in four or five years.
But he said Asian carriers likely will buy 150 fewer airplanes 90 from Boeing and 60 from rival Airbus Industrie over the next
five years because of slower growth in the current downturn. He
based his prediction on the assumption that Boeing will retain its
traditional 60 percent of the worldwide jetliner market.
Sixty of the Boeing deliveries to be affected will be widebody
aircraft such as the 747 jumbo jet, the 767 and the 777, all of
which are built in Everett.
Because of the reduced demand for widebodies, Boeing recently
announced it will lower monthly production of its largest model,
the jumbo 747, to 3.5 in mid-1999 from five currently.
Published annually by Boeing, the 20-year forecast is used by
the company's customers and suppliers to gauge future growth in the
industry.
The outlook predicts Latin America will be the fastest-growing
air travel market over the next 20 years at an annual rate of 7.4
percent. Latin America's airlines are expected to add 1,410 new
jets, valued at $77 billion, in that time.
The company's outlook indicated European travel growth will be
4.1 percent a year, with airlines adding 4,990 new jets, valued at
$345 billion, in the next 20 years.
For the North American market, traffic growth has decreased from
3.1 percent last year to 2.9 percent in 1998. The outlook estimates
the region's airlines will add 5,580 new jets, worth $332 billion,
over the next two decades.
Boeing believes that small airplanes will capture the largest
segment of the market over the next 20 years.
The forecast projects seven out of 10 airplanes delivered during
the next two decades will be single-aisle airplanes the size of
the California-built Boeing 717, and the Renton-built 737 and 757.
They will account for 43 percent of the dollars invested in new
airplanes, or 12,260 airplanes.
Intermediate-size airplanes, such as the Boeing 767 and 777,
will represent one out of four future airplane deliveries and will
account for 44 percent of the dollars invested in new airplanes, or
4,360 jets.
The report estimates the smallest market segment, 747-size or
larger airplanes, will total 15 percent of the dollars invested in
new jetliners, or 1,030 airplanes.
Airbus disagrees and is planning a new superjumbo jet dubbed the
A3XX that could cost $12 billion to develop and would break
Boeing's monopoly in the market for planes seating more than 400
passengers.
While the report did not address employment, Dennis said Boeing
has not changed its previously announced plans to reduce its
workforce by 20,000 over the next two years, mostly through
attrition.
GARDEN CITY, N.Y. State Comptroller H. Carl McCall has
organized a coalition of major stockholders in Marketspan Corp.
seeking to remove its chairman, Dr. William Catacosinos, because of
the growing controversy over his compensation.
But a Marketspan spokesman, Joseph McDonnell, said that
Catacosinos still has the confidence of other investors
representing far more shares than the coalition does.
McCall's move opens a new front in the battle over the $67
million in special compensation that Catacosinos and 25 other top
executives of Long Island Lighting Co. took before it disbanded in
a complex deal on May 28. The state's Long Island Power Authority
took over LILCO's electricity service. The rest of LILCO merged
with the Brooklyn Union Gas holding company to form Marketspan,
which the authority hired to run the electric system.
TRENTON, N.J. Faced with growing opposition from lawmakers
over her plan to raise the gasoline tax to pay for preserving 1
million acres of farmland and undeveloped land over the next 10
years, Gov. Christie Whitman said Thursday that she was considering
other ways to finance the program.
Whitman said that she was not abandoning her gasoline-tax
proposal, but she acknowledged that her aides were discussing
financing alternatives with legislative staff members.
Whitman aides said that one plan under discussion would involve
the state's borrowing $1 billion over the next 20 years to buy the
land during the next decade. The cost would be about $92 million a
year, to be paid from existing state revenue. In addition, the
state would spend another $445 million over 10 years to acquire
open space.
The gasoline tax now stands at 14.5 cents per gallon. Whitman
has been seeking legislative approval to put a 7-cent-a-gallon
increase on the ballot this November. She has proposed using 5
cents of the increase for transportation projects and 2 cents to
buy open space.
Her aides are continuing to push for the tax increase for
transportation projects. While state lawmakers have expressed
support for raising the tax for that purpose, there has been little
enthusiasm among Republicans or Democrats for raising the tax to
pay for open space preservation.
Whitman is likely to win more support for her borrowing proposal
than for the tax increase to meet her goal of preserving half of
the state's remaining two million acres of open space. In the
Republican-controlled Senate, lawmakers have been pushing
legislation that would put a $210 million bond proposal before
voters in November for open space preservation.
Whitman, who has been promoting the gas-tax proposal at frequent
appearances around the state, took her campaign Thursday to a farm
in Lawrence Township that was made part of the state's farmland
preservation program. She talked about the importance of farmland
preservation, but did not bring up her gas-tax plan until asked by
reporters.
Yet in their silver-screen debut a $70 million, two-hour
action-packed adventure that opens today Scully and Mulder are
not traveling to a land where no man has gone before.
According to ACNielsen EDI research, the average gross for
movies made from television shows this decade is $60.6 million. The
average for all other films in wide release is $35.2 million.
If the celebration turns out to be profitable, the possibilities
for television producers who want to make movies is nearly endless,
Borys said.
But Borys doesn't think just anyone can do it. Sitcoms couldn't
make the translation, he said.
NEW YORK Finding that young surgeons at New York University
Medical Center were working far more hours than the law allows in
some cases up to 130 hours a week state health officials fined
the hospital $16,000 Thursday.
It was the first time that the state fined a hospital
specifically for violating the decade-old law aimed at protecting
patients from doctors who are overworked or deprived of sleep. But
health officials, under increasing criticism for not enforcing the
regulations, warned last month that they were stepping up the pace
of inspections and would punish offenders.
New York Medical Center, one of the city's most prestigious
hospitals, became the first to be fined under the state's new
vigilance. An inspection there in mid-May found that 10 of 18
surgical residents worked more than the 80-hour limit, and 12 of
them worked 30 to 36 hours straight. The law bars residents from
working more than 24 hours straight.
The state investigation found the violations only in the
surgical training programs, with the cardiac-surgery department the
worst. All four first-year cardiac residents were found to be
working between 110 and 130 hours a week.
The hospital released a statement acknowledging the problem and
saying that it has formed a committee to make sure that it follows
the law.
But the statement also noted that the problem existed at other
institutions. In May, after several months of mounting criticism
from medical experts, in newspaper articles and from other public
officials, Dr. DeBuono completed an investigation of 12 hospitals many of them among the best in the state and determined that all
12 were violating the laws.
The day the report was released, Dr. DeBuono sent investigators
to three other hospitals, including New York University Medical
Center, and found only NYU had violated the laws, passed in 1989.
The driving force behind those laws, Dr. Bertrand Bell, praised
the fine and Dr. DeBuono's initiative on Thursday, even as he doled
out a measure of criticism.
GRAND PRAIRIE, Texas When the lights come up tonight at Lone
Star Park at Grand Prairie, there is the inevitable presumption
that some of the participants are old enough to be put to stud.
At the NTRA All-Star Jockey Championship, they'll be checking
birth certificates only on the horses, thank you. Bailey, born in
Dallas and raised in El Paso, will turn 41 this summer and has
saddled more than 4,300 winners.
Bailey's record, like Pincay's and Delahoussaye's and all of the
40-something set's, more than substantiates that. They don't ride
on the seniors circuit and their winners don't pay off in Depends
coupons.
Once upon a time, a betting man might have wagered that not all
jockeys would live into their 40s, let alone win in them. Bailey
has heard the old stories, too.
Bailey rides six horses a day, five days a week, about 48 weeks
a year. He has been averaging 1,100 to 1,200 rides each calendar
year.
He rides in New York, because all the great ones, sooner or
later, tend to gravitate to the New York, Kentucky or California
tracks.
It isn't Texas. But Bailey has earned enough his mounts'
winning purses last year totaled nearly $16 million that he has
been able to buy himself some Texas-sized elbow room on Long
Island.
Though he was born in Dallas, Bailey moved to El Paso with his
family before he had turned 3. His father, a dentist, bought a pony
for the back yard.
At 17, he began riding professionally at Sunland Park in New
Mexico. His first winner was named Fetch. But his greatest winner
was the legendary Cigar.
From October 1994 until August 1996, Cigar won 16 races without
losing. The streak equaled Citation's as the longest by any North
American-based horse in the 20th century. Bailey was aboard Cigar
for 15 of those 16 victories.
Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, a
company that advises institutional investors on legal terms, said
she is not surprised that producers have decided to take their
chances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.
The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewed
courtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general to
jump-start their lawsuits against producers. A large majority of
the states involved in last June's plan were late in suing
producers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to win
congressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.
Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over the
past year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in a
lawsuit against a cigarette company. Such a bill, which effectively
allows a state to recover collectively rather than pressing
individual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was considered
instrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billion
settlement with the industry last August.
Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, said
that while some states have lost ground waiting to see what
Congress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceeding
actively.
Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try and
restart settlement negotiations between the industry and some state
attorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks very
preliminary.
Ms. Aronson and other legal experts added that while they
believed the industry could overcome many of the claims filed
against it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.
They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers and
union health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the first
time. And while those actions might not initially succeed, the
success of one could open the door for others.
In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and the
steady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs about
tobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.
Aronson and others added.
ALBANY, N.Y. With just hours left in the legislative session,
leaders of the state Assembly on Thursday dropped their opposition
to a measure requiring that the names of HIV-positive people be
reported to the state and mandating that government health workers
ask infected people to name their sexual partners so that they can
be notified that they are at risk.
The Republican-controlled Senate on Thursday night passed the
bill by a vote of 55-6, and a large majority of Assembly members
are known to favor the measure, which has been kept from a vote by
the leadership in recent years. Gov. George Pataki, a Republican,
also favors the bill in concept, but aides said he would not
comment on it until his lawyers had read it.
In addition to the HIV tracking measure, legislative leaders
also agreed to create an appeals process for people who are denied
health insurance and to expand health care for poor children.
But as the Senate and Assembly met late into the night to
conclude what many legislators called a singularly unproductive
year, leaders of the two houses and Pataki failed to agree on a
wide range of measures that appeared possible, even likely, as
recently as a day or two ago: ending parole for violent felons,
establishing charter schools, consolidation of the state's
multilayered court system, allowing dairy farmers to charge more
for milk, and permitting mutual insurance companies to sell
billions of dollars in stock.
But it was a bitter internal fight over HIV legislation among
the Democrats who control the Assembly that occupied much of the
last two days in that house, and provided the greatest drama on the
final day.
After years of resisting the concept, the Democrats who control
the Assembly said their house would pass the bill requiring
reporting, by name, of people infected with the AIDS virus, to the
state Health Department, which would keep a central registry of the
names of infected people.
Local health agencies would be required to interview all people
reported as testing positive, ask them to name their sexual
partners, and then warn those partners that they have been exposed
to the virus. But the law would not penalize anyone who refused to
divulge the names of their sexual partners.
Twenty-eight other states, including New Jersey, already track
HIV cases by name, but many of those do not mandate the tracing of
contacts. Passage of the measure in New York would be significant
since it has the nation's highest rate of reported AIDS cases.
Public health officials have said that reporting by name and
tracing contacts are needed to make sure that people are aware that
they have been exposed to the virus, in part to reduce the risk of
spreading the infection. Early detection of the virus is considered
increasingly important since a new class of AIDS drugs called
protease inhibitors has proven effective in treating the disease in
many people.
AIDS-treatment advocacy groups have fought the measure, arguing
that it would discourage people from being tested and seeking
treatment. Some said patients could be effectively tracked without
using their names, by assigning them identification codes. But
supporters of the bill said such a system would be cumbersome and
might hinder the ability to track the spread of the disease.
It has long been clear that such a bill had enough votes to pass
the Assembly nearly all the 53 Republicans and most of the 97
Democrats favor it but Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver kept it
from coming to a vote for years.
The bill's sponsor, Assemblywoman Nettie Mayersohn, a Queens
Democrat, has been a loud and relentless advocate, spending years
trying to embarrass Silver into allowing a vote. And many Assembly
members have said the public pressure on them to act grew greatly
with the news last fall that one man, Nushawn Williams, had
infected more than a dozen women and girls in small towns in
western New York.
On the last day of the legislative session, Silver gave in to
pressure from other Democrats. Many genuinely supported the
measure, while others feared their failure to act on it would be
used against them as a campaign issue by Republicans. Silver
negotiated some minor changes with Ms. Mayersohn, then freed
legislators to vote as they pleased. The bill squeaked through two
committees, by votes of 11 to 10, before going to the floor.
Despite the resolution of the AIDS issue, many legislators
expressed disappointment about a session that seemed much more
promising months ago. In April, many lawmakers were euphoric after
the Legislature enacted the least-tardy state budget in five years.
For the first time, the budget was hammered out in conference
committees, with the involvement of many rank-and-file legislators,
rather than in secret meetings among state leaders.
But for those same lawmakers, the last seven weeks of the
session and the final 48 hours in particular were a distinct
letdown. Pataki, who is running for re-election, took much of the
wind out of the Legislature's sails by vetoing $1.6 billion in
spending it had approved, and the rest of the session sank into a
morass of recriminations and election-year politicking.
One of the final deals made by lawmakers strikes at health
insurers that deny people coverage for treatment, whose only option
is to appeal the insurer. Instead, the agreement reached by Silver,
Pataki and Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno would allow patients
to appeal a denial of treatment including of experimental
treatments to an independent arbiter chosen by the state Health
Department. Both houses were expected to approve the bill Thursday
night.
The bill could neutralize what was shaping up to be an issue in
the gubernatorial race. Lt. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, Pataki's
former protegee who hopes to run against him as a Democrat, has
made attacks on health maintenance organizations and calls for an
outside appeals process a centerpiece of her campaign, and some of
the other Democrats in the race have joined in.
Silver, Pataki and Bruno also agreed on an expansion of the
state's health care program for children of low-income families,
which will be paid for by New York's share of a $24 billion federal
grant program established last year. About 420,000 children are
eligible for the program, but fewer than half that number are
enrolled.
The state program, called Child Health Plus, makes health
coverage available at little or no cost. Income limits would be
raised from $35,000 a year for a family of four, for example, to
$40,000 expanding eligibility by about 35,000 children. It would
also lower the fees charged to some families, and move some
children in the program into Medicaid, the federal health program,
giving them a wider range of benefits.
The most prominent proposal to fade away in the waning hours,
and the one Pataki had pressed for most vigorously, was one that
would have ended parole boards' ability to release violent felons
from prison early. Under the measure, felons would have been
required to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.
As with many of the issues taken up this year, the Democratic
Assembly leaders were reluctant to go along, but were aware that
the governor's position was popular, and that Democrats might pay a
price at the polls for opposing it.
In the second-to-last week of the session, Silver said he would
accept the parole provision if it were linked to expanded education
programs in prisons and to laws allowing some felons to be
sentenced to drug treatment programs rather than prison. Pataki and
Bruno rejected those conditions, and despite negotiations that
continued far into the night Thursday, no compromise was reached.
The governor was the chief advocate for several other ideas that
died in the last few days, like casino gambling and creating
so-called charter schools, public schools with particular missions
that operate largely independent of the usual bureaucracy. The
Assembly Democrats and their allies, the teachers' unions, opposed
the governor's charter schools proposal, and while they insisted
they were open to some other version, there was little evidence of
a middle ground they would accept.
Pataki also wanted to see a change in law to allow mutual
insurance companies, which are technically owned by their
policyholders, to sell stock to outsiders with limited compensation
to policyholders. Under current law, a mutual insurance company can
sell stock but the policyholders must get most of it. The Assembly
leaders negotiated with the insurers until late Thursday, but no
deal was reached.
CLEVELAND If there was any doubt whether Orlando Hernandez is
good enough to face good teams, he put it to rest Thursday night,
when he pitched seven and two-thirds strong innings against the
Cleveland Indians.
Hernandez was out of the game before the Yankees won, 5-2,
snapping a tie in the ninth inning when Scott Brosius drew a
bases-loaded walk with an 11-pitch at-bat and then adding two more
runs. But Hernandez confirmed the Yankees' belief in him, and their
decision to keep him in the rotation and move Ramiro Mendoza to the
bullpen.
The Yankees had the bases loaded and one out in the ninth, and
Indians reliever Mike Jackson struck out Chad Curtis for the second
out. Brosius beat out what appeared to be a run-scoring infield
hit, but Tim Tschida, the home-plate umpire, ruled the ball was
foul, prompting a lengthy argument with Joe Torre, the Yankee
manager.
After Brosius resumed his at-bat he fouled off five two-strike
pitches before taking the walk that scored pinch-runner Homer Bush
with the lead run. A single and an error added two more runs in the
inning.
Hernandez was initially scheduled to pitch against Baltimore on
Monday, and quite logically, the Indians did not send an advance
scout to watch El Duque's last start, in Montreal on June 9. The
Yankees had two rainouts last weekend, Hernandez's subsequent start
was postponed, and the Indians then were left to examine videotape
of his previous outings, to look for patterns or tendencies or any
sort of clue to identify when and what Hernandez would throw.
They might have had more luck finding the Loch Ness Monster.
Hernandez, in his third major league start, mystified the Indians
completely with his cheek-high Bruce Lee leg kick, the gold chain
and cross dangling from his neck, his instinctual feel for
confusing batters.
Most starters become more vulnerable as the game progresses, as
opposing hitters begin to time their fastballs and better recognize
the off-speed stuff. But in the case of Hernandez, information
almost seems to be counter-productive; the Indians grew more
baffled inning to inning, at-bat to at-bat, as they guessed
incorrectly what Hernandez might try next.
Cleveland was at an immediate disadvantage against Hernandez,
even before the Indians' first at-bat. Charles Nagy, the Cleveland
starter, threw two low curveballs that Tschida called for strikes;
these parameters of the strike zone could not have been better
suited for Hernandez, who throws many types of breaking balls that
spin low.
The Indians had seven hits and three walks during Hernandez's
seven innings, but until his final inning of work, he seemed to be
completely in control. Torre wondered aloud last week how Hernandez
would respond to pressure. This is his answer: Cleveland was
hitless in its first eight at-bats with runners in scoring
position, Hernandez throwing curves, sliders, changeups and
fastballs from all different angles. Twice Cleveland manager Mike
Hargrove griped to the umpires about how Hernandez wiggled his
fingers when working from the set position, probably an attempt to
rattle the rookie. But Hernandez would not be bothered.
The Indians had a runner at third and one out in the third
inning, and Hernandez whiffed Manny Ramirez and Jim Thome, with a
slider and changeup, respectively. The Indians had another runner
at third and one out the next inning; Hernandez struck out Mark
Whiten and Pat Borders.
Hernandez carried a 2-0 lead into the seventh, allowing a walk
and a single to open the inning. Borders stared at a third-strike
fastball, David Bell grounded out, advancing the runners and
bringing Kenny Lofton to the plate. Lofton, who seemed to be the
only Cleveland batter remotely comfortable hitting against
Hernandez, fouled off three pitches with two strikes, before lining
a two-run single to right and tying the game.
Hernandez retired the first two batters in the eighth, jamming
Ramirez so badly with a fastball that the right fielder fell
backward in the batter's box as the ball trickled up the first base
line where Hernandez, charging off the mound, gloved it just
before it edged foul, and ran to stomp on the bag himself.
Having thrown 122 pitches to that point, however, Hernandez was
lifted. He lowered his earned run average to 1.52. He has allowed
16 hits and 6 walks in his first 23 2/3 innings.
Derek Jeter, in the final step of rehabilitating his abdominal
strain, played for Class AAA Columbus Thursday night, in Durham,
N.C., and hit two doubles and struck out in four at-bats. He made a
throwing error for the Clippers; interestingly, he hasn't made a
single throwing error for the Yankees. Jeter is expected to join
the Yankees Friday and play against Cleveland, after being
activated off the 15-day disabled list.
Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, a
company that advises institutional investors on legal terms, said
she is not surprised that producers have decided to take their
chances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.
The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewed
courtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general to
jump-start their lawsuits against producers. A large majority of
the states involved in last June's plan were late in suing
producers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to win
congressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.
Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over the
past year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in a
lawsuit against a cigarette company. Such a bill, which effectively
allows a state to recover collectively rather than pressing
individual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was considered
instrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billion
settlement with the industry last August.
Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, said
that while some states have lost ground waiting to see what
Congress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceeding
actively.
Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try and
restart settlement negotiations between the industry and some state
attorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks very
preliminary.
Ms. Aronson and other legal experts added that while they
believed the industry could overcome many of the claims filed
against it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.
They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers and
union health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the first
time. And while those actions might not initially succeed, the
success of one could open the door for others.
In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and the
steady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs about
tobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.
Aronson and others added.
NEW YORK With less than three months left before 14,000
4-year-olds are supposed to begin new prekindergarten classes
established by the state, New York City's overcrowded public school
system is planning to enroll a third of those children in private
and parochial preschools.
Unable to squeeze the preschoolers into public schools ripping
at the seams, officials expect to use public funds to educate about
5,000 children in private schools. It is a rare example of the
city's public school system relying on the private sector for basic
academic services; the only precedents are smaller programs in
counseling and tutoring.
The state law that established prekindergarten classes
encouraged local school districts to draw up contracts with private
preschools. The law requires each district to devote at least 10
percent of its funds to contracts with private agencies, and
education officials in Albany said the requirement was added
because they knew many districts would be unable to find the space
or the qualified teachers on their own. The private preschool
industry, worried about losing business, also lobbied heavily in
Albany.
When state lawmakers enacted the law establishing the $500
million program last summer, they allocated money for teachers and
aides, but none for construction, despite the space problem.
Since then, translating the language of the law into reality has
flummoxed school officials across the state, especially in New York
City, which now expects to be spending 35 percent of its state
allocation for the program on private and parochial schools.
Indeed, the story of prekindergarten in New York is emerging as
the story of good intentions crashing into difficult realities.
In some areas of the city, parents have been unable to submit
applications for their preschoolers because district officials have
not picked the private preschools they will use. Bathrooms and
playgrounds are still being inspected, teacher credentials reviewed
and classrooms observed.
As school officials have discovered, conditions at private
preschools vary widely. Dirty floors and a dearth of books at a day
care center on the ground floor of an East New York housing project
dismayed one superintendent, while the emphasis on penmanship at a
preschool in northern Queens troubled another district official,
who considered the school's approach too rigid.
And recently, a new complication was unearthed: When a Brooklyn
superintendent showed up to inspect a yeshiva, it was closed for a
religious holiday, revealing the potential chaos that mismatched
school calendars could create for working parents.
Still, most educators unequivocally embrace the concept of
preschool education, not just in New York but around the United
States. A survey taken last year by the Children's Defense Fund, an
advocacy group based in Washington, found that 21 states had
increased financing of preschool programs, most of them intended
for poor children.
Last year, the New Jersey Legislature set aside $125 million for
prekindergarten classes in 125 of the state's poorest school
districts. In Connecticut, lawmakers agreed last year to spend $86
million over two years on prekindergarten classes in more than a
dozen poor, mostly urban districts.
When the universal prekindergarten law was enacted a year ago,
it drew bipartisan support from lawmakers, and got a strong boost
from Lt. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross. The program is voluntary for
parents. New York City's Board of Education voted to require each
of its 32 districts to provide the classes.
Champions of the program cited research pointing to the
long-term benefits of early education. For instance, studies of
Head Start, the federally financed prekindergarten program for poor
children, showed that preschoolers enrolled in the program
initially showed measurable improvements in health, school
attendance and cognitive test scores. The gains in cognitive test
scores, however, faded after a couple of years.
The program is financed with $46 million in state funds for the
1988-89 school year, matched by $5 million from the Board of
Education. Unlike Head Start, which is limited to needy children,
New York's prekindergarten program is available to children
regardless of their family income, though in the first year only
districts with the largest percentage of poor children including
all New York City districts are eligible.
Private preschools that want contracts with the city school
system must be licensed by the city, and they cannot offer
religious instruction. Any parochial schools involved in the new
program will, under the state law, have to scrub classroom walls of
religious icons and agree to a secular curriculum.
Given the stipulations, several private agencies, including
schools run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, have
passed up the offer.
The privatization issue has not drawn opposition from the
teachers' union. An estimated 225 teachers will be hired to
instruct children in prekindergarten.
Although enrollment is optional for parents, each of the city's
school districts will be required to accommodate 16 percent of
their estimated population of 4-year-olds, or a citywide total of
14,000 children.
Five of the most overcrowded districts have yet to find room in
their buildings or in private preschools to accommodate their share
of prekindergartners in the fall, though Board of Education
officials say they are optimistic that room will be found soon.
Those five are District 6 in upper Manhattan, Districts 9 and 11
in the Bronx and Districts 24 and 29 in Queens.
Most districts are selecting students either by lottery or on a
first-come-first-served basis. The state law mandates that
districts gradually expand the number of slots so that by fall
2002, any 4-year-old can enroll in a prekindergarten class.
But accommodating all children whose parents want them in the
program by 2002 is likely to be a formidable challenge, given the
lack of new school buildings and parallel state legislation
requiring cuts in class size beginning in fall 1999.
For prekindergarten alone, 30,000 seats, or 1,750 classrooms,
would have to be built or found by 2002, according to estimates by
the Board of Education. To reduce class size, 45,552 more seats more than 2,000 classrooms would be required. This fall, the
board will open six new schools with about 5,000 seats.
District 19 on the eastern fringe of Brooklyn, for example, has
little room for prekindergarten in its Cypress Hills neighborhood,
the densely populated northern part of the district where schools
are already so crowded that kindergartners are bused to Starrett
City, several miles south.
Touring his district and looking for prekindergarten space the
other day, Superintendent Robert Riccobono said he wondered whether
parents in Cypress Hills would shepherd their children to the
southern end of the district, where there is ample space for
prekindergarten: Within a two-block radius in Starrett City, he had
found a public school that could house a couple of prekindergarten
classes, as well as a yeshiva and a secular preschool.
But space is not the sole concern. Although licensed private
preschools, like the public schools, have state-certified
early-childhood teachers, there is a great variety in the
conditions and philosophy of each preschool.
On a tour the other day, Riccobono found one preschool, on the
ground floor of a housing project in the East New York section of
Brooklyn, practically devoid of books and instructional supplies
and floors that needed a thorough cleaning. Still, he chose the
preschool after concluding that the problems were easily fixable.
Around the state, 124 of about 700 school districts those with
the largest share of poor children are eligible in the first
year, and of those, 80 are participating. School districts will be
phased in based on their percentage of poor children, and by the
fourth year, all districts will be eligible.
Other districts are also facing problems implementing the
program. In small, growing cities like Gloversville, west of
Albany, school officials are having trouble finding enough school
buildings or licensed day-care centers to accommodate the rising
student enrollment, state education officials said. In East Aurora,
in western New York, school districts are negotiating with a
mammoth day-care center run by the toy company Fisher Price.
Several cities are looking for empty rooms in state buildings.
In New York City, the demand for the state-financed
prekindergarten classes is hard to gauge, though it is well known
that the day-care crunch is particularly intense for the city's
working poor: There are 36,000 children on a waiting list for
city-subsidized day-care slots.
MONTREAL Luis Lopez, who is normally an infielder, had no
problem at all with any of the fly balls hit his way Thursday night
in his first major league start in right field. Instead, it was a
ground ball that proved tricky for Lopez, and that played a key
role in helping the Montreal Expos beat the Mets, 7-6.
Lopez's misplay, as well as the inability of Rey Ordonez to
drive someone home with one out and at least one runner in scoring
position in the fifth and sixth innings, were what hurt the Mets
the most. Ordonez popped out to short with Edgardo Alfonzo on third
in the fifth and grounded to third and into a double play with the
bases loaded in the sixth.
The Mets, whose last four losses have each been by one run, did
score three times in the sixth off the Montreal rookie Javier
Vazquez to erase a 2-0 deficit. But Masato Yoshii (4-3), who had
allowed home runs to Vladimir Guerrero and Rondell White in the
first two innings, could not hold the lead.
In the Expos' sixth, Lopez let a bases-loaded single by Mark
Grudzielanek get under his glove for a two-base error, which led to
a five-run inning that made it 7-3 and pretty much doomed the Mets.
Lopez was playing right field because Bernard Gilkey is still
having problems with his left eye a week after being hit by a pitch
in the face and because Butch Huskey's aching right knee needed
some rest.
The loss left the Mets (38-29) with a 3-4 finish to their
eight-day journey to Florida and Montreal, two of the weakest teams
in the National League. Yoshii was charged with 7 runs on seven
hits in five and a third innings against the weakest-hitting lineup
in the NL, his worst outing as a major leaguer.
That Yoshii was not at his sharpest was evident early, when
Guerrero homered with two out in the first inning and then White
went deep to lead off the second. But Yoshii was able to hold the
Expos scoreless for the next three innings, while the Mets
attempted to figure Vazquez out.
The 21-year-old right-hander, who had a 1-6 record and a 6.00
earned run average, scattered four hits on his first two times
through the Mets' order.
The third time through was the charm for the Mets, however. Five
consecutive hits a Matt Franco single, a Mike Piazza double, a
John Olerud single for two runs, a Carlos Baerga single and an
Alfonzo double for a third run built a 3-2 lead for the Mets. But
Ordonez failed with the bases loaded against reliever Shayne
Bennett, and then Yoshii let the lead slip away.
The Expos sent 11 batters to the plate in their sixth. Yoshii
opened the inning by getting Jose Vidro on a called third strike.
But Guerrero followed with a double, Brad Fullmer singled him to
third and White walked on a 3-2 pitch to fill the bases.
The next batter, Grudzielanek, rifled a run-scoring single to
right on the artificial turf, past a diving Baerga at second base.
Lopez charged the ball sensing a play at home. Instead, the ball
kicked off his glove and went to the wall. Three runners scored,
Grudzielanek wound up at third base and the Expos had a 5-3 lead.
By the time the inning was over, it was 7-3 with these numbers:
three hits off Yoshii; five walks shared by Yoshii and Turk
Wendell; one botched rundown after Wendell had picked Chris Widger
off first base, and Lopez's two-base error.
The Mets did answer with another three-run rally in the seventh
as Piazza Piazza provided a run-scoring double, his second of the
game, and Baerga singled for two runs. It pulled the Mets to within
7-6.
But Guerrero robbed Alfonzo of extra bases and what would have
been his fourth hit of the game with a running catch in
right-center field to end the uprising, and the Expos held on to
win.
NEW YORK Three years before a New York City police officer,
Francis Livoti, was accused in the choking death of Anthony Baez
during a 1994 arrest in the Bronx, his commanding officer
recommended that he be transferred because of the number of police
brutality complaints against him.
The department did not follow the recommendation of Deputy Chief
William Casey, then commander of the 46th Precinct in the Bronx,
who described his concerns about Livoti in a recent deposition in a
pending civil lawsuit against the Police Department by the Baez
family.
In the deposition, Casey testified that he also changed Livoti's
shift, gave him a new partner, talked with him and recommended to
him that he undergo psychological counseling.
Livoti is currently on trial in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
on a charge of depriving Baez of his civil rights. In October 1996,
he was acquitted of state charges of criminally negligent homicide
in Baez's death. The acquittal ignited street protests in the Bronx
and focused more attention on the issue of police brutality. In
February 1997, after a separate administrative trial, the Police
Department dismissed Livoti from the force after finding that he
had used an illegal and deadly choke hold on Baez.
The lawyer for Livoti, Stuart London, who has said that his
client denies all wrongdoing in the Baez case as well as in other
civilian complaints, did not return calls to his pager last night.
But the testimony by Casey shows that, as early as 1991,
high-level police officials were aware of the concerns about Livoti
and did not take action.
Thursday, the government continued to present its civil rights
case against Livoti; the trial has included testimony from members
of Baez's family that they saw Livoti grab Baez around the neck. In
the early morning hours of Dec. 22, 1994, Baez, 29, was tossing a
football with his three brothers near their childhood home in the
University Heights section of the Bronx, where Baez was visiting
from his home in Florida. When the brothers' football hit a patrol
car repeatedly, Livoti got out of his car and confronted the
brothers in an incident that ultimately led to the struggle in
which prosecutors say Livoti choked Baez. Baez died shortly
thereafter
Casey's testimony in the deposition also points to the influence
that the police union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, has
in disciplinary matters. Casey testified that his case for Livoti's
transfer had to be even stronger because the officer was the
precinct's union delegate.
Parts of the chief's deposition remain sealed under an order
from Justice McKeon. A lawyer for the Baez family, Susan Karten,
declined to make a copy available or to discuss it, citing the
judge's order.
Casey, who is assigned to the Department's organized-crime
control bureau, referred a request for comment to a Department
spokeswoman, who declined to comment.
Lawyers defending New York City in the Baez family's civil suit
have sought to keep Casey's testimony out of the public record,
requesting the confidentiality order and objecting in a hearing
April 7 before McKeon when one of the family's lawyers referred
briefly to the transfer recommendation.
In his deposition, Casey said that Livoti was the first officer
he had ever tried to transfer, and that he had done a full analysis
of Livoti's civilian complaint record. Although details of that
record were not available Tuesday, federal prosecutors, in court
papers, have described one incident which the jury will not hear
about in court that predates the chief's June 1991 recommendation
to transfer Livoti.
In that September 1990 incident, according to the court papers,
Livoti was arresting a man, Ivan Cruz, and twisting his arm behind
his back when a second man, Manuel Bordoy, approached and told
Livoti that he was being unnecessarily rough. The two men were
returning home to the Bronx from a nightclub in Manhattan.
According to the government's account which Livoti denies he
then punched Bordoy twice in the face, breaking his jaw in three
places.
CLEVELAND As he decides how to approach the appeal of his
five-game suspension, Mike Stanton may have to choose between
honoring his principles and doing what is most advantageous for the
New York Yankees.
Gene Budig, the American League president, imposed a five-game
suspension and $1,000 fine on Stanton, contending that he purposely
hit Baltimore's Eric Davis with a pitch on Monday.
Stanton adamantly denies he did anything of the sort, and he
says that he intends to aggressively appeal the suspension, which
is scheduled to begin Wednesday.
Stanton wants to establish all the way through the process that
he disagrees strongly with the decision, and that he did not target
Davis. And there is always the chance that Budig will reduce the
penalty once he meets with Stanton.
On the other hand, Stanton could take the same approach that
Darryl Strawberry and Graeme Lloyd did last month and try to time
the suspension so that it leaves the Yankees in the best possible
competitive situation.
It would best suit the Yankees if Stanton remained available for
the four-game series with Cleveland that started Thursday night,
and for as many games as possible in the four-game series to be
played against the Atlanta Braves next week; Stanton is
left-handed, and the Indians and the Braves are loaded with
left-handed hitters, from Cleveland's Jim Thome and David Justice
to Atlanta's Ryan Klesko and Michael Tucker.
Looking ahead further, the Mets, who will play host to the
Yankees from June 26 to 28, have just one front-line left-handed
hitter, John Olerud. On the face of it, the Yankees would be best
served if Stanton could serve the bulk of his suspension while the
team plays at Shea Stadium.
But he is torn. He wants to make a stand, an opportunity to
present his perspective to Budig.
Derek Jeter, in the final step of rehabilitating his abdominal
strain, played shortstop for the Yankees' Class AAA Columbus
Clippers Thursday night, in Durham, N.C. He hit two doubles and
struck out in four at-bats. He also made a throwing error.
Jeter is expected to join the Yankees on Friday and play against
Cleveland, after being activated off the 15-day disabled list.
Chad Curtis was not in the first lineup posted in the Yankees'
clubhouse Thursday. But after talking to Curtis and examining the
statistics of the Cleveland starter, Charles Nagy, Joe Torre
reinserted Curtis in center field. He was 1 for 3.
A columnist at The Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,
fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this year,
and the newspaper has asked for her resignation, The Globe
announced Thursday.
In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a woman
dying of cancer, the newspaper said.
Storin said he had yet to receive Ms. Smith's letter of
resignation. But in Ms. Smith's final column, published in Friday's
issue of The Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Co., she
acknowledges her misdeeds.
Ms. Smith did not respond to messages left on her voice mail at
work, and her home telephone was out of service. Her lawyer, John
Williams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not respond to
voice-mail messages.
This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that her
credibility had come under fire. As an editorial assistant at The
Chicago Sun-Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of a
concert that she had not attended, a former colleague recalled. The
newspaper ran a correction, but she was not dismissed.
The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after The New
Republic published the results of an investigation into the work of
Stephen Glass, a staff writer, who it said had fabricated parts or
all of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote for the magazine in two and a
half years.
The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeks
ago during normal monitoring by senior editors. Under the system,
which Storin said he established two and a half years ago, editors
occasionally double check columnists' sources.
He said editors discovered the fabrications earlier this month,
while Ms. Smith was on vacation, and confronted her when she
returned.
The Globe said Ms. Smith also acknowledged inventing Jim Burke,
a worker erecting barricades at the Boston Marathon, in her April
20 column; and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name,
the subject of a poignant column about a woman with cancer,
published on May 11.
Ms. Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at The
Chicago Daily News, joined The Globe in 1990. She has been writing
a column for the Metro/Region section since 1994. This year, she
won an award from the American Society of Newspaper Editors for a
series of columns published in 1997. She was also nominated for a
Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year. A poet, she has been
widely recognized in the Boston arts community for her public
readings.
The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after being
questioned by Moore. Storin said that The Globe initially had
questions about six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted to
fabrications in four of them.
SAINT-JEAN D'ARDIERES, France He wears his hair to his
shoulders. He proposed to his wife in the Pacific Ocean surf,
holding her with one hand and his surfboard with the other. Even
into last year, Frankie Hejduk struggled to determine whether his
profession would be surfing or soccer.
Eighteen months ago, this free spirit was kicked off the U.S.
soccer team for missing a team flight to China. But his searing
speed, boldness in attack and renewed dedication have won him a
place on the World Cup squad. He provided the only scoring chance
in Monday's humbling 2-0 loss to Germany, and is expected to start
Sunday's crucial match against Iran in Lyons, where the Americans
hope that goals will come in bunches, like grapes.
When given the nod at halftime on Monday, with the United States
trailing, 1-0, Hejduk (pronounced HAY-duck) searched for something
to wrest his team from its timid start. Baseball players break out
the rally caps, but soccer players don't wear hats, so Hejduk went
to his rally shorts, turning his game pants around, number facing
the back.
The night before, he had practiced his trademark reggae dance in
his hotel room, just in case he scored a goal. And nine minutes
into the second half he launched a diving header that appeared to
be a certain score, only to be thwarted by a desperate reach from
the German goalkeeper, Andreas Kopke.
Against Iran, the Americans will again need his assertive
efforts to get behind what is considered a penetrable defense. Goal
scoring figures prominently in the tie-breaker system used at the
World Cup. The Americans feel they must win by at least two goals
on Sunday and win or draw against Yugoslavia next Thursday to have
any chance of advancing to the second round.
Hejduk is expected to replace Mike Burns at right wing in
midfield, and coach Steve Sampson is considering whether to play
with two forwards instead of one. The idea is that the Americans
must be aggressive from the beginning and not lie back as they did
against Germany.
Politics continue to swirl around this game the way hot-dog
wrappers swirl around ballparks. But politics don't seem to
resonate in the slightest with the 23-year-old Hejduk. He was only
5 in 1979 when the Americans were taken hostage at the U .S.
Embassy in Tehran. At the time, he said, he was into soccer,
surfing and recess.
He had much the same incredulous reaction in January 1997, when
he did not hear his watch alarm, and he missed a team flight to
China. Infuriated, coach Steve Sampson dismissed Hejduk from the
team and planned never to call him back.
Hejduk said that, at the time, he wasn't sure whether he
preferred soccer over surfing. A native of Cardiff, Calif., he had
been a state surfing champion in high school. And he had wanted a
surfboard, not room and board at some university, but his parents
convinced him that a soccer scholarship to UCLA was not an
opportunity to be wasted. Nor, he later realized, was a chance to
play in the 1998 World Cup.
Marriage and the birth of a son have brought maturity and
discipline to Hejduk, according to Sampson, who granted him a
second chance. And Hejduk says he now sets six alarm clocks instead
of one.
His biography was not included in the 1998 soccer team media
guide. But Hejduk intrigued Sampson with his tireless running in a
1-0 victory over Brazil in February and scored in a 3-0 exhibition
victory over Austria in April. Then he missed the final four World
Cup tuneups with a hamstring injury and was nearly cut from the
team.
Healthy again, he remains one of the few real American threats
with his ability to sprint ceaselessly down the wing. Except,
perhaps, for Cobi Jones, no one on the team can match Hejduk's
enduring speed. And few demonstrated the absolute fearlessness that
he showed against Germany.
The coach has theorized that Hejduk gets his fearlessness in
soccer from surfing. And Hejduk believes there is no other
cardiovascular workout so effective. What do his surfing friends
think of soccer? They love it, Hejduk said.
Perhaps that is why Payne Stewart was so giddy after a 4-under
66 in Thursday's opening round, which was contested under very mild
conditions, at least in these parts. Yep, no wind, no fog and thank goodness no you-know-what.
Defending champ Ernie Els also had his putting problems on
greens that, for the most part, were fairly moist and slow by
Olympic standards. His chances for a third national championship in
the past five years looked bleak after a 75.
If there was a player who had it on cruise control, it was
Carnevale. He never made a bogey while carding a 67.
Unbelievably, he caught a good lie and managed to smack an
8-iron to 12 feet for his fifth and final birdie of the day against
one bogey.
Lehman, who has finished third, second and third in the past
three Opens, was cautiously optimistic about his 68, which included
three birdies on his last four holes.
Knowing how fickle the Olympic Club can be, there seems no other
way to approach it. 
Leeland McElroy, a second-round draft pick by the Cardinals in
1996, was released Thursday after several attempts to trade him
failed.
McElroy, from Texas AM, struggled during his two seasons. He
became expendable with the off-season additions of running backs
Adrian Murrell, Mario Bates and draftee Michael Pittman, plus kick
returner/wide receiver Terry Metcalf.
Last season, McElroy gained 424 yards on 135 carries for an
average of 3.1 yards a carry. He scored two touchdowns and started
eight games for a team that was the NFL's worst rushing team.
They have signed all but their top two 1998 draft picks, Andre
Wadsworth and Corey Chavous, after Thursday's signing of former
Arizona State player Pat Tillman, a seventh-round draft pick. 
CINCINNATI In the city where the Big Red Machine once ruled
the baseball world, it seemed a bit strange that an expansion team
could sweep a road series.
The Diamondbacks are not quite ready for that kind of notoriety,
nor will they be for a few years.
But after Thursday's 4-2 victory at Cinergy Field completed a
three-game sweep of the Cincinnati Reds, the Diamondbacks hope the
momentum carries into the remaining five games of this eight-game
trip.
Left-hander Brian Anderson came through with a gritty
seven-inning effort in which he held the Reds scoreless on two
hits. He also singled and provided spark on the basepaths by
scoring two runs.
The victory was achieved in sweltering conditions. Temperature
at game time was 82, but on the artificial turf it had to be at
least 10-15 degrees higher. In addition, the game started at 12:35
p.m. local time after a night game Wednesday.
Anderson's big day came in front of a group of family and
friends from his home area in northern Ohio while he was battling
the onset of a cold.
As he arrived at the park on Thursday, he got some advice from
right-hander Andy Benes, who kept the Reds in check in similar
conditions on Wednesday night by giving up one run on five hits in
eight innings.
To help him win for the fourth time in his past five starts,
Anderson (5-6) also took a page out of the pitching book of
left-hander Omar Daal, who beat the Reds on Tuesday night.
In the third inning, he followed a leadoff double by catcher
Kelly Stinnett with a sacrifice bunt off right-hander Scott
Klingenbeck (1-2). First baseman Eduardo Perez fielded the ball and
tried to get Stinnett at third, but the throw was too late.
Anderson advanced to second when Klingenbeck hit Andy Fox with a
pitch (Fox also was hit by Jeff Shaw in the ninth). Devon White hit
a single to center, scoring Stinnett easily.
Anderson came steaming into third, slowed when third-base coach
Brian Butterfield waited to make the signal and had to shift into
high gear again when Butterfield waved him home. Anderson hit the
dirt and slid a leg between the shin guards of catcher Eddie
Taubensee.
In the fifth, Anderson led off with an infield hit. White hit a
single to left-center with one out and Anderson challenged the arm
of left fielder Dmitri Young, who threw the ball into the dugout
and allowed Anderson to score.
After Karim Garcia's ground-rule double made it 4-0 in the
eighth, Showalter went to right-hander Russ Springer, who gave up
two runs on three hits. Right-hander Gregg Olson rescued Springer
by striking out Taubensee to end the inning, then returned in the
ninth to set down the Reds in order and record his second save in
two games and 10th overall. 
Today, Cohn, managing director of the Crowne Plaza Hotel in
downtown Phoenix, stands by those words and says the city's
convention center could be headed for even tougher times.
Phoenix Councilman Sal DiCiccio said the Civic Plaza is
vulnerable, not only to the East Valley's plans but to those in
other cities around the country.
Cohn points to an exhibit hall list that placed Phoenix at No.
13 in 1990, ranking the size of the country's convention centers.
By 1993, Phoenix slipped to 34 and reportedly has fallen even
lower.
The prospect of a new convention center that competes with and
takes some business from the Civic Plaza is something Phoenix
officials are watching closely.
Cohn noted that the problem for Phoenix officials is not just
what is happening down the road in the East Valley.
He said the size of the Civic Plaza doesn't compare to other
centers in the larger cities, but a look at the whole package shows
downtown amenities from sports arenas to museums within walking
distance and a recent $32-million face lift. Two planned downtown
hotels should help, he said.
But, like Krietor, he said there are other factors to make up
for that disadvantage.
Local convention figures show 50 conventions booked into the
Civic Plaza in fiscal 1997-98, which ends June 30. That would
compare with 43, 49 and 62 in the previous three years.
The city already purchased more than eight acres at the old
Phoenix Union High School campus. One of the reasons: to possibly
use it for expansion of the Civic Plaza.
If 200,000 or 300,000 square feet of meeting and exhibit space
were built at the old campus at Seventh Street and Van Buren,
Krietor said the plaza could double-book, hosting some events at
the plaza and some at the nearby campus.
So when race leaders crashed and fumbled away a victory to
Woodside a few weeks back in Kansas, the 27-year-old Valencia
driver knew someday he'd have to give up a win in the same fashion.
That day arrived this past Sunday at Altamont Raceway Park in
Tracy. Woodside led 198 laps of the 200-lap Spears Manufacturing
200 before being taken out in a crash on the turn before the
checkered flag.
Woodside started the race on the pole and led all the way until
getting a late challenge from eventual winner Kevin Harvick and
Gary Smith.
Smith bumped Woodside while taking the lead coming out of turn
two. Woodside caught him on the outside coming out of turn 3. But
as the cars went into turn 4, Smith squeezed Woodside up high,
bumping him head-on into the wall.
While Woodside, Smith and Raudman were skidding around the
track, Harvick took the checkered flag and retook the series points
lead from Woodside. Harvick has a five-point advantage, 1,124-1,119
over Woodside. Smith is a distant third at 1,036.
Woodside's car took a beating in the crash and is being rebuilt
in the North Carolina shop of NASCAR mechanical-whiz Ronnie
Hopkins.
If the crash was unfortunate, at least it came at a point in the
schedule where Woodside's team will have time to get his car back
in shape.
Despite his injured ribs, Woodside doesn't want to wait until
July for his next race. He plans to drive in the June 27 NASCAR
Featherlite Southwest Tour race at Sears Point.
Lengthy lead: Despite a wire-to-wire victory by Prunedale driver
Doug McCoun, Granada Hills' M.K. Kanke padded his Featherlite
Southwest Tour season points lead with a fourth-place finish in
Sunday's Altamont 100.
Back in the saddle: Defending Trans-Am champion Tom Kendall,
without a steady ride for most of this season, will be busy this
summer.
In addition to making a final run with the International Race of
Champions all-stars in late July, Kendall will drive Team SABCO's
No. 46 First Union Chevy Monte Carlo on NASCAR Winston Cup road
courses at Sears Point (June 28) and Watkins Glen, N.Y. (Aug. 9).
Kendall, long one of the stars of American road racing, gets a
call almost every year from one Winston Cup team or another looking
for a driver for the tour's two road-course stops.
When not racing, Kendall can be found doing commentary at
various races. He will be in Portland, Ore., this weekend, decked
out with a microphone and headset for ESPN's coverage of the FedEx
Championship Series Budweiser-G.I. Joe 200.
Nuts and bolts: Wally Dallenbach will take over behind the wheel
of the No. 50 Budweiser Winston Cup car for Sunday's Pocono 500.
Dallenbach, fired earlier this year by Team SABCO, takes over
relief duty for Ricky Craven, who is recuperating from
post-concussion syndrome. . . . Mojave Desert Racing, Inc. will
hold the third of its five race weekends today, Saturday and
Sunday. The event's being called the Kar Tek Off Road California
200, in Lucerne Valley. Information: (626) 442-9320. 
Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in an
impish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating the
birdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-round
lead at the U.S. Open.
By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished with
a 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale on
a day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.
Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick rough
tinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditions
difficult for the 156 starters. Stewart was among nine players who
finished yesterday with under-par scores.
Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway and Jose Maria Olazabal,
all at 68. Joe Durant, John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert,
a Houston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.
Several notables struggled, however. Past major-championship
winners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),
Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all find
themselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.
But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collected
five birdies and one bogey. He also drained two par putts from
beyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open. In
1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.
Stewart's biggest break came at No. 17, where he hit a driver
into the first cut on the right-hand side. Figuring he could not
reach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tall
grass and caught it flush. The ball rolled. And rolled. And rolled.
All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewart
drained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funky
chicken dance in celebration.
He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected
2-iron into the right rough. From there, Stewart dug out an 8-iron
that skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high and
turning toward the hole. It eventually stopped 12 feet above the
hole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie of
the day.
Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman who
has bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.
But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18
holes without a bogey in the opening round.
Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greens
in regulation. He one-putted nine greens, including three for
birdies.
CINCINNATI Don't try searching for some special formula to
explain the Diamondbacks' recent winning ways. There is no secret
method for success.
The biggest reason the Diamondbacks have won three in a row and
four of five begins and ends with their pitching rotation. Period.
You don't need to be some old baseball codger to know pitching
has been and always will be the difference between winning and
losing at this level. Everyone who has ever been associated with
baseball knows the game is all about pitching.
If you got it, you win. If you don't, you're the Florida
Marlins.
Andy Benes, Willie Blair, Brian Anderson and Omar Daal have
pitched about as well as their human bodies are capable in the last
week. Since beating St. Louis last Saturday, the four have combined
to produce an almost pea-sized ERA of 1.60 during the five-game
span.
This, folks, is what a top-notch pitching staff looks like. Pay
attention to it, because stretches like this don't tend to last
very long outside of Atlanta.
Forget for a moment that the Diamondbacks gained only one game
in the standings entering Thursday's game. That's not the important
part of this three-game win streak.
This is about a brand-new franchise finding some players it can
count on, which is really what the 1998 season is all about. Benes
is a known quantity. He will produce his 15 or so victories over
the course of a full season.
Blair won a career-best 16 last year and has suffered some hard
luck in the form of very few runs along the way to his 2-9 record.
Anderson, who pitched seven scoreless innings in Thursday
afternoon's victory, has won four straight decisions to improve to
5-6.
Daal, probably the biggest surprise of the bunch, is pitching as
if he wants no part of the bullpen ever again. Since replacing
injured Joel Adamson in the rotation, Daal has baffled opponents
and has allowed only two earned runs in his past 17 innings.
The Diamondbacks, who one month ago were on a pace to go 44-118,
are suddenly on a pace to win 56 games. They have played above .500
in their past 33 games and no longer can be considered the
pushovers they were in April.
To his credit, Diamondbacks pitching coach Mark Connor has stuck
with his core of starters. Benes, Blair and Anderson have started
at least 15 games, never missing a turn.
Daal has not missed a turn since he was inserted into the
rotation, and even Jeff Suppan must admit he was given more than a
fair shake, lasting 11 starts before being sent to Triple-A Tucson
with his 1-6 record and 7.04 ERA.
The next audition belongs to 24-year-old Amaury Telemaco,
scheduled to make his Diamondbacks debut as a starter Saturday
against St. Louis. Telemaco was claimed off waivers from the
Chicago Cubs.
The Diamondbacks are now enjoying the fun part that comes from a
stretch like this. Their starters are currently engaged in friendly
competition, each wanting to outdo the other.
The wave will crash at some point, especially with a rotation as
relatively young as this one. As long as the pitchers are riding
the wave, who cares? Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail. 
Maybe a reserved treatment is surprising from NBC just coming
off the Michael Jordan Experience. It will have much more of a
chance to cover him live today with his second-round tee-time of 10
a.m. But if anything, extended coverage by NBC and ESPN Thursday
tended to rein in the hype and make the scores the thing to focus
on rather than the potential sideshow.
Meaning that even with non-Masters'-like TV time NBC does 16
hours over the four days, and ESPN takes the first two rounds to
near completion there won't be anything more on the Martin story
unless something materializes.
Martin, who has received nothing but praise by media types for
his accommodating demeanor, writes in the current issue of WE, a
magazine for people with disabilities:
With the network's NBA coverage complete for the year and
probably no Michael Jordan to baby-sit anymore, Dick Ebersol has
abdicated his title of NBC Sports president to Ken Schanzer.
Ebersol, who had the nameplate since 1989, is going to be known as
the chairman of NBC's Olympics division....
A seven-year contract extension between KCAL-Channel 9 and the
Lakers translates into about a $140 million revenue-sharing deal.
It also guarantees the station all Lakers playoff games that aren't
tied into the national NBC package....
The Kings' new three-year deal KRLA-AM (1110) doesn't mean
they'll be butting heads with the Ducks, whose games were on the
station last season. The Ducks' contract with KRLA ended, and
reportedly they're talking to XTRA-AM (690), which is the station
that the Kings left because of the signal's lack of penetration in
the San Fernando Valley and because the station presented many more
conflicts with other teams' broadcasts....
UCLA's football game at Miami on Sept. 26 will be on CBS'
schedule with a 9 a.m. kickoff time locally, and Terry Donahue will
be the analyst. 
It looked like it began in more than one place, and it spread
fast and low, as if it had been fueled.
Three decades later, Romaneck came forward with a shocking story that her father had killed her mother and buried her body at the
family home.
The father eventually was sent to prison for that crime, and
investigators took another look at the fatal fire. They determined
it was not an accident but arson.
This month, Romaneck won a $5.5 million judgment against the
city, claiming that police and fire officials were negligent in
their investigation of her sisters' deaths.
As a result of that negligence, her father, Eugene Keidel,
remained free and, she said, subjected her to years of abuse.
So the city agreed to a judgment in Romaneck's favor. The $5.5
million will be paid by the city's insurance carriers.
One of Romaneck's attorneys, Frank Verderame, said Thursday that
the key for Romaneck was having the city acknowledge the
negligence.
The disappearance of Dianne Keidel remained a mystery for 27
years, until Romaneck broke her silence and came forward with
shocking details.
In a letter mailed to Phoenix police, she wrote that she had
seen her father beat her mother on Sept. 17, 1966. Then she had
heard digging outside their west Phoenix house.
The year after the letter, in 1994, Eugene Keidel was arrested.
A jury found him guilty of first-degree murder, and he was
sentenced to life in prison.
The fire had occurred Jan. 9, 1967. Eugene Keidel told
investigators that he was not home at the time. He had gone to a
convenience store, bought a beer and then drank it while drying
clothes at a laundromat, he said.
The two surviving children were left in the care of Eugene
Keidel. Romaneck said that led to a childhood filled with terror years and years of physical and sexual abuse.
Romaneck said she learned for the first time that police and
fire officials suspected foul play in her sister's deaths in 1995,
when she was given copies of their death certificates.
They had been amended by investigators who re-examined the fire
after Romaneck had come forward about her mother's disappearance.
They concluded that the 1967 investigation was flawed, that the
fire was caused by arson, and that the girls' deaths were
homicides. Officials have yet to decide whether to charge Keidel
with them.
In a deposition, a retired fire investigator, Bob Biven, said
that in 1967 he had suspicions about the fire. He said it appeared
to have started in more than one place, but he could not eliminate
the pan on the stove as a possible source.
Moore later said in a deposition that he could not rule out the
pan on the stove and that he believed the fire was an accident.
But the detective also acknowledged that he didn't interview the
surviving children and didn't see the bodies of the dead children
and their burns, or photos of the dead children.
At the time, another Phoenix detective was investigating the
disappearance of Keidel's wife four months before the fire, court
records show, and believed that Keidel was a possible suspect.
Romaneck said Thursday she still has vivid memories of the day
of the fire. Her older sister, Karen Sue, tried desperately to
protect her.
LOS ANGELES In adopting a plan that would allow massive growth
in Los Angeles boosting the population 25 percent by 2010 city
officials failed to properly tell the public the staggering costs
of meeting the needs of 820,000 new residents, a judge has ruled.
Two years after the City Council adopted a General Plan
Framework to guide overall development, Superior Court Judge David
Yaffe tentatively ruled Thursday that the city must hold additional
hearings and give the public a chance to review and comment on how
to meet traffic and transit needs, and whether the city has the up
to $25 billion available to meet them.
The judge's decision could at least temporarily set aside the
General Plan until the additional hearings are held and the plan is
readopted in its current or modified form.
The Transportation Improvement and Mitigation Program was not
properly circulated to the public for input before the City Council
voted 9 to 4 to approve the General Plan and an accompanying
Environmental Impact Report in 1996, the judge said.
Yaffe said he would not substitute his judgment for that of the
City Council on the merits of the proposal, but said the city was
legally obligated to disclose the transportation plan and its
warnings before adopting the General Plan.
Hal Bernson, who chairs the City Council's Planning and Land Use
Committee, harshly criticized the ruling even as he maintained it
would have little immediate impact.
Deputy City Attorney Susan Phann said depending on the wording
of the judge's written order to be finalized in two weeks the
General Plan might be allowed to remain in effect while the
transportation report is recirculated and hearings are held.
But Lawrence Teeter, an attorney for the federation, said he
believes the judge's action would temporarily set aside the city's
General Plan while the transportation issue is reheard.
Teeter said he does not see how the council could keep the
General Plan in effect while holding hearings on whether it is
adequate.
Gordon Murley, president of the Woodland Hills Homeowners
Organization and the federation, said the ruling allows a new
challenge about whether the growth plan adequately deals with
traffic and transit problems it would generate.
If the city were allowed to grow at the levels envisioned by the
plan, freeway speeds would grind to half what they are nowunless
mass transit was greatly expanded.
Growth allowed under the disputed plan would create a huge gulf
between needs and critical services, leaving the city short 6,100
police officers, 77 fire stations and 87 schools.
The General Plan is a land-use guide for city planners in
judging zoning and building applications, channeling new
development into areas where public agencies would have to invest
in service and transit upgrades.
In a major move rearranging the Web's power structure, The Walt
Disney Co. announced Thursday it is buying what will turn into a
controlling interest of one the most popular Internet search
companies in a deal valued at nearly $500 million.
Disney officials say they will use the Internet might of
Infoseek and Disney's strongest assets which include such
powerhouse brands as ABC and ESPN, its theme parks and characters to attract the hundreds of millions of people not already online.
Analysts said that far more than any other Internet player,
Disney can successfully market the idea of easy Web access to
nontechies, including the advertising-attractive group of parents
who trust the Disney name but aren't Internet-savvy yet.
The deal will put Disney in competition on at least one front
with Internet companies such as America Online and Yahoo! that also
are building content on the World Wide Web, currently used by about
50 million people. But where AOL also serves as an Internet service
provider, giving customers a local telephone number through which
they can access AOL and the Internet, Disney is just offering sites albeit, well-branded sites to visit once someone is online.
Then again, with cable and telephone companies working
feverishly to bring the Internet into every home, Disney doesn't
have to offer connection service. After all, Disney attracts
millions of moviegoers but doesn't own any theater chains.
The deals reinforce the view that traditional media companies
will have to partner with Internet specialists rather than build
Web portals from scratch if they are to achieve significant
recognition among current and future Internet users.
Thursday's deal was just the latest agreement between a
mainstream media company and an Internet firm. Disney formed an
alliance two weeks ago with Excite, providing easy access to
Disney's sites, and NBC last week paid $32 million for a minority
investment in Internet specialist CNET and its Snap! directory
service.
Shares of Infoseek had risen nearly 50 percent in the past three
weeks as takeover rumors lifted most Internet stocks. Infoseek
shares gained 62.5 cents to $35.125 after hitting $42 during the
session while Disney lost 2 5/16 to $112.
The $496 million deal calls for Disney to obtain a 43 percent
stake in Infoseek in exchange for Disney's ownership position in
Starwave Corp. which develops Disney's Internet sites plus $70
million cash.
Analysts believe the entertainment giant is in the right place
at the right time even though profits won't show up on the bottom
line immediately.
Maybe a reserved treatment is surprising from NBC just coming
off the Michael Jordan Experience. It will have much more of a
chance to cover him live today with his second-round tee-time of 10
a.m. But if anything, extended coverage by NBC and ESPN Thursday
tended to rein in the hype and make the scores the thing to focus
on rather than the potential sideshow.
Meaning that even with non-Masters'-like TV time NBC does 16
hours over the four days, and ESPN takes the first two rounds to
near completion there won't be anything more on the Martin story
unless something materializes.
Martin, who has received nothing but praise by media types for
his accommodating demeanor, writes in the current issue of WE, a
magazine for people with disabilities:
With the network's NBA coverage complete for the year and
probably no Michael Jordan to baby-sit anymore, Dick Ebersol has
abdicated his title of NBC Sports president to Ken Schanzer.
Ebersol, who had the nameplate since 1989, is going to be known as
the chairman of NBC's Olympics division....
A seven-year contract extension between KCAL-Channel 9 and the
Lakers translates into about a $140 million revenue-sharing deal.
It also guarantees the station all Lakers playoff games that aren't
tied into the national NBC package....
The Kings' new three-year deal KRLA-AM (1110) doesn't mean
they'll be butting heads with the Ducks, whose games were on the
station last season. The Ducks' contract with KRLA ended, and
reportedly they're talking to XTRA-AM (690), which is the station
that the Kings left because of the signal's lack of penetration in
the San Fernando Valley and because the station presented many more
conflicts with other teams' broadcasts....
UCLA's football game at Miami on Sept. 26 will be on CBS'
schedule with a 9 a.m. kickoff time locally, and Terry Donahue will
be the analyst.
-- Maybe it's best that USC's new football play-by-play man
doesn't use his real name. With analyst Paul McDonald next to him
and Paul Hackett on the field, it would get pretty confusing.
SAN FRANCISCO Somewhere along the Olympic Club's Lake Course
Thursday, Steve Pate misplaced his swing. He stopped by the lost
and found after his first round at the U.S. Open and nobody had
turned it in.
So all the Agoura Hills resident could do was storm off to the
driving range, where he was a study in displaced anger, beating
range balls when everyone knew darn well that what he really wanted
to do was take a bulldozer to the 16th, 17th and 18th holes.
Those 1,424 yards were Pate's undoing, turning a resplendent
round inside out. He arrived at the 16th tee tied for the early
lead at 2-under par and feeling pretty good about himself. He left
the scorer's tent less than an hour later seething after signing
off on a 2-over-par 72.
The four-shot swing came courtesy of bogeys at 16 and 17 and a
double bogey at the par-4, 347-yard 18th. His finish told the story
of many players' first rounds on a day when a marine layer parked
itself over the course like an irksome spectator and made
everything in its midst players, putters, coffee cold.
Mark Carnevale, who posted a 3-under-par 67, one stroke behind
leader Payne Stewart, was the only player in the 156-man field to
successfully elude the bogey man. Pate was one of the few not to
feel like the Ice Man had cometh.
Pate, a member of the first group that teed off, was at the
driving range for 3{ hours. That was nearly as long as he and
playing partners Olin Browne and Grant Waite were on the course. As
the afternoon wore on, the temperature dropped appreciably and a
wicked wind kicked up chillbumps.
All around Pate, people were reaching for sweatshirts and
windbreakers or apparently their wallets, because inside the USGA
merchandise tent warm items were moving faster than some of the
putts on the Lake Course's sloping greens.
Indeed, it's a small wonder the stares he trained on the heavens
after some of his shots down the stretch didn't burn away the fog.
On the 18th hole, he looked insulted when his second shot from the
shaggy green stuff to the left of the fairway landed in the bunker
in front of the green, indignant when his third shot failed to
clear the bunker, incisive when his fourth shot stopped 6 feet from
the pin, incensed when he missed the bogey putt.
Neither is entirely true. He had a couple of magical moments,
chipping in for a birdie on No. 4 and draining a 60-foot birdie
putt on No. 9. And he hit a couple hundred really nice shots on the
range.
On this day, plus-two hardly seemed worth five bags of range
balls, much less 10. Seventy-seven players in the field would have
given their spare sweater for that score, among them Hale Irwin
(80), Sam Randolph (80), Ben Crenshaw (82) and poor Richard Ames
(86).
Pate's range rage was rivaled only by Jim Furyk, who spent
!ital!four!off! hours teeing up practice balls after shooting a 74
that included a double bogey on each nine.
It's a good thing for Pate and Furyk that USGA officials didn't
post signs like the ones you find at the gym, usually in the
vicinity of the stairmasters and treadmills, that ask you to abide
by a 30-minute time limit when people are waiting.
We'll find out today whether or not it's a good thing they're
getting another shot at the Lake Course. Pate's strategy is going
to be pretty simple.
Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in an
impish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating the
birdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-round
lead at the U.S. Open.
By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished with
a 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale on
a day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.
Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick rough
tinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditions
difficult for the 156 starters. Stewart was among nine players who
finished yesterday with under-par scores.
Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway, Joe Durant and Jose Maria
Olazabal, all at 68. John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert, a
Houston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.
Several notables struggled, however. Past major-championship
winners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),
Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all find
themselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.
But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collected
five birdies and one bogey. He also drained two par putts from
beyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open. In
1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.
Stewart's biggest break came at No. 17, where he hit a driver
into the first cut on the right-hand side. Figuring he could not
reach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tall
grass and caught it flush. The ball rolled. And rolled. And rolled.
All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewart
drained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funky
chicken dance in celebration.
He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected
2-iron into the right rough. From there, Stewart dug out an 8-iron
that skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high and
turning toward the hole. It eventually stopped 12 feet above the
hole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie of
the day.
Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman who
has bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.
But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18
holes without a bogey in the opening round.
Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greens
in regulation. He one-putted nine greens, including three for
birdies.
WASHINGTON The federal grand jury investigating the
relationship between President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky on
Thursday heard from the lawyer who had helped prepare her statement
in the Paula Jones lawsuit.
The testimony by the lawyer, Francis Carter, has been sought
from the outset of the inquiry by the independent counsel, Kenneth
Starr. Carter helped prepare an affidavit on Ms. Lewinsky's behalf
in the lawsuit by Mrs. Jones, in which Ms. Lewinsky denied under
oath that she had had a sexual relationship with Clinton.
Ms. Lewinsky was referred to Carter by Vernon Jordan, a close
friend of the president. Jordan has said that he took Ms. Lewinsky
to see Carter at about the time he was helping to arrange a job for
her. At the time, she faced a subpoena in the sexual harassment
lawsuit brought by Mrs. Jones against Clinton.
But later on Thursday, in an interview with The Washington Post,
Carter depicted himself as a lawyer who had been kept in the dark
by his client, Ms. Lewinsky, about several important details. Ms.
Lewinsky did not tell him that she had received gifts from Clinton,
or that Jordan was even then trying to help her find a job, The
Post quoted Carter as saying.
Jordan has said he tried to assist Ms. Lewinsky at the request
of Clinton's personal secretary, Betty Currie. Starr is known to be
investigating whether the job aid from Jordan was part of an
illegal scheme to keep Ms. Lewinsky quiet about a possible affair
with Clinton while the Jones lawsuit was still pending.
Although Ms. Lewinsky had denied a sexual relationship with the
president in the Jones affidavit, Ms. Lewinsky's second set of
lawyers had proposed as part of secret immunity talks with
prosecutors that she would be willing to testify that she did have
sex with Clinton, lawyers involved in those talks said.
But no evidence has surfaced to indicate that Carter did
anything improper in helping Ms. Lewinsky prepare her original
affidavit.
Carter's appeared before the grand jury on Thursday after losing
a court fight over whether his conversations with Ms. Lewinsky were
protected by the lawyer-client privilege.
Also on Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said she had not
decided whether to open an inquiry about accusations in a new
magazine, Brill's Content, that Starr made improper disclosures to
reporters. Starr has denied those accusations. Ms. Reno said she
had referred the matter to the Office of Professional
Responsibility at the Justice Department to decide whether to
pursue an inquiry.
Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in an
impish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating the
birdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-round
lead at the U.S. Open.
By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished with
a 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale on
a day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.
Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick rough
tinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditions
difficult for the 156 starters. Stewart was among nine players who
finished yesterday with under-par scores.
Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway, Joe Durant and Jose Maria
Olazabal, all at 68. John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert, a
Houston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.
Several notables struggled, however. Past major-championship
winners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),
Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all find
themselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.
But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collected
five birdies and one bogey. He also drained two par putts from
beyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open. In
1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.
Stewart's biggest break came at No. 17, where he hit a driver
into the first cut on the right-hand side. Figuring he could not
reach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tall
grass and caught it flush. The ball rolled. And rolled. And rolled.
All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewart
drained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funky
chicken dance in celebration.
He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected
2-iron into the right rough. From there, Stewart dug out an 8-iron
that skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high and
turning toward the hole. It eventually stopped 12 feet above the
hole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie of
the day.
Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman who
has bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.
But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18
holes without a bogey in the opening round.
Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greens
in regulation. He one-putted nine greens, including three for
birdies.
SAN FRANCISCO As they watch him limp, the bitterness wanes. As
they meet the person, the principles soften. And as they witness a
disabled man validating his journey, an amazing thing is happening:
A big divot of compassion is emerging from the pampered fairways of
their soul.
Not now. Not when the man with a dying leg beats the system,
shrugs off the animosity, keeps his head down and completes the
first round of his first major . . . eight strokes off the lead.
The stodgy suits will never admit it, but golf scored big on
Thursday. Four months after winning in court, Martin is poised to
go from role model to folk hero.
After all, this wasn't a freak show or a rebel without a cause.
This is a golfer proving why he deserves to ride. And if you have a
pulse, you are cheering for Martin now.
Why must the lords of golf fight this sentiment? Why can't they
drop the appeal, one that is costing Martin over six figures in
legal fees? How can they cite the sanctity of tradition when they
sell out to club manufacturers?
It's easy to fawn over talent, but what about courage? Isn't
that worth more than anything, a lesson everyone can learn from?
You would think they'd recognize what a boon Martin can be for
their sport.
It was almost cruel what Martin experienced after arriving in
San Francisco. A flat tire on the way to his practice round. A cart
that broke down after one hole, and another single-seat model that
almost tipped over navigating the hills.
Through it all, Martin graciously accepted whatever he was
given, and then his luck began to change.
In an impromptu skins game, Martin fleeced Woods out of $30. On
Thursday, despite a late tee time that had him shivering in the
dark, he played with incredible poise. Despite bogeying the last
two holes, he is in good position to make the cut.
On the subject of playing in the dark, there is still a faction
opposed to Martin. By deposition, Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer
testified against him. And Tom Watson had a chilling response when
asked how he'd feel if his son was in the same position.
Whatever, Tom. But for all the talk of golf being a physical
activity, know Martin had to walk from approach shot to green, then
on to the next tee. That's about 60 yards per hole, and given
Martin's disease, I'd call that a wash.
Yet once the sun had disappeared, there were no tire tracks, no
dilemmas, no controversy surrounding his cart. Just a man who never
gave up showing us the reason why. Dan Bickley can be reached at dan.bickley(at)pni.com.
State tribal negotiators reached a truce Thursday in the state
poker wars, just 18 hours before Casino Arizona was set to open on
the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Community, east of Scottsdale.
After months of declaring that the state has no authority over
Indian-run poker, Ivan Makil, tribal president, agreed to hire the
state Gaming Department to oversee and monitor its 42-table poker
room at McKellips Road just east of the Pima Freeway.
In exchange, Gov. Jane Hull will not take the tribe the court to
resolve the poker issue, which erupted in August after state
Attorney General Grant Woods said that Indian-run card games are
illegal in Arizona.
Details of the pact have not been worked out, but it means that
Casino Arizona, which opens Friday, will continue to run its poker
hall while negotiations continue between Hull and tribal officials.
Without the agreement, the casino's continued operation may have
been in jeopardy.
Gary Husk, head of the Arizona Gaming Department, said his
concerns over hiring practices at the casino prove the state should
regulate poker just as it does slot machines and other games in
Indian country.
He said he is worried about the integrity of poker at Casino
Arizona because the tribe has hired a felon and another man whose
gaming license was revoked by the state.
Officials at Casino Arizona said that the men pose no risk to
players, and have been approved by the National Indian Gaming
Association in Washington, D.C., and cleared several other
background checks.
The casino's decision to hire Frank Vawter, convicted in 1978 of
embezzlement, and Michael Byrne, whose state gaming license was
revoked in 1996, is under fire.
Salt River gaming officials, who were scrambling Thursday to get
the 20,000-square-foot hall ready for Friday's poker players,
defended the hiring of Vawter and Byrne.
All poker-hall workers are subjected to checks by federal gaming
officials, as well as the Arizona Indian Regulatory Association,
Jenkins said. In addition, he said, Salt River officials verify
references and call other sources.
Amalia Valencia, Salt River's licensing official, acknowledged
that the casino has hired other felons, but she said they are not
violent and are trustworthy.
Vawter was working at Fort McDowell's casino in 1995 when the
state learned that he had been convicted in California of
embezzling $10,000 from a business partner. He was sentenced to 30
days in jail.
Although records show that Vawter's conviction was later set
aside, an Arizona hearing officer refused to issue him a gaming
license needed for a supervisory job.
Byrne, who also worked at Fort McDowell, lost his gaming license
after state regulators ruled that he had worked temporarily in an
unlicensed casino in California. But Byrne said he was given
permission by his boss at Fort McDowell to work at the California
facility.
Although he lost his Arizona license, he said he has been
licensed in California and has been a guest speaker on gambling at
Scottsdale Community College.
It looks simple. The local thug is causing trouble again, this
time beating up his own people, not the neighbors. Last time, he
became cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showed
it meant business by carrying out air strikes.
It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, Slobodan
Milosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who is
probably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.
Thousands of lives would have been saved.
In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsin
that it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talk
to the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo. Yet no one
should assume that this better behavior will last long.
Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,
notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat at
the hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years of
Muslim subjugation.
But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90
percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.
In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of the
Yugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy was
ended, repression has intensified.
The Kosovars want to secede. Some would prefer to negotiate
their independence; others, growing in number by the day, are ready
to fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the border
in Albania.
Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in the
killing is likely to be just that, a lull. The question of whether
to intervene will then recur.
The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.
It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government that
could claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold the
principle of territorial integrity.
Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for? And who gave
NATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'
internal affairs?
On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution in
the U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes. And
without the Security Council's approval, it is far from certain
that even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.
NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now a
defense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,
least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whose
fellow-Slavs are the Serbs). Action, if it is taken, could end up
as an American-British affair.
Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, is
by no means exceptionally terrible. Some 200-300 people have been
killed and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 of
them fleeing abroad.
The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervene
in Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) or
Rwanda (800,000).
Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in military
actions). The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to the
dangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less. And the
Kosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on their
oppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.
Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: how
would NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes against
an Indian government that was fighting to prevent its
majority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?
All this should make outsiders think hard before letting slip
their airborne dogs of war. Yet one consideration strengthens the
case, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.
It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is not
contained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its own
discontented ethnic-Albanian minority. The ensuing civil war would
probably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eager
to break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.
Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greece
would be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey
(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil war
this decade). Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.
If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would be
bombs well dropped.
Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombs
would be enough. Armed intervention, if it were to work, would also
require specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end to
repression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,
preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holy
places.
At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilize
Macedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnic
Albanians). But even this would probably be too little if the
interveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as well
as in the air, to keep the peace.
That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,
attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to uphold
Serbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would be
seen as yet another empty western gesture. (To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
It looks simple. The local thug is causing trouble again, this
time beating up his own people, not the neighbors. Last time, he
became cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showed
it meant business by carrying out air strikes.
It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, Slobodan
Milosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who is
probably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.
Thousands of lives would have been saved.
In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsin
that it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talk
to the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo. Yet no one
should assume that this better behavior will last long.
Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,
notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat at
the hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years of
Muslim subjugation.
But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90
percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.
In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of the
Yugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy was
ended, repression has intensified.
The Kosovars want to secede. Some would prefer to negotiate
their independence; others, growing in number by the day, are ready
to fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the border
in Albania.
Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in the
killing is likely to be just that, a lull. The question of whether
to intervene will then recur.
The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.
It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government that
could claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold the
principle of territorial integrity.
Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for? And who gave
NATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'
internal affairs?
On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution in
the U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes. And
without the Security Council's approval, it is far from certain
that even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.
NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now a
defense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,
least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whose
fellow-Slavs are the Serbs). Action, if it is taken, could end up
as an American-British affair.
Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, is
by no means exceptionally terrible. Some 200-300 people have been
killed and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 of
them fleeing abroad.
The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervene
in Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) or
Rwanda (800,000).
Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in military
actions). The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to the
dangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less. And the
Kosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on their
oppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.
Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: how
would NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes against
an Indian government that was fighting to prevent its
majority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?
All this should make outsiders think hard before letting slip
their airborne dogs of war. Yet one consideration strengthens the
case, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.
It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is not
contained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its own
discontented ethnic-Albanian minority. The ensuing civil war would
probably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eager
to break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.
Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greece
would be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey
(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil war
this decade). Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.
If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would be
bombs well dropped.
Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombs
would be enough. Armed intervention, if it were to work, would also
require specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end to
repression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,
preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holy
places.
At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilize
Macedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnic
Albanians). But even this would probably be too little if the
interveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as well
as in the air, to keep the peace.
That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,
attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to uphold
Serbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would be
seen as yet another empty western gesture. (To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
It looks simple. The local thug is causing trouble again, this
time beating up his own people, not the neighbors. Last time, he
became cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showed
it meant business by carrying out air strikes.
It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, Slobodan
Milosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who is
probably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.
Thousands of lives would have been saved.
In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsin
that it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talk
to the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo. Yet no one
should assume that this better behavior will last long.
Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,
notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat at
the hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years of
Muslim subjugation.
But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90
percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.
In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of the
Yugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy was
ended, repression has intensified.
The Kosovars want to secede. Some would prefer to negotiate
their independence; others, growing in number by the day, are ready
to fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the border
in Albania.
Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in the
killing is likely to be just that, a lull. The question of whether
to intervene will then recur.
The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.
It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government that
could claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold the
principle of territorial integrity.
Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for? And who gave
NATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'
internal affairs?
On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution in
the U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes. And
without the Security Council's approval, it is far from certain
that even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.
NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now a
defense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,
least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whose
fellow-Slavs are the Serbs). Action, if it is taken, could end up
as an American-British affair.
Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, is
by no means exceptionally terrible. Some 200-300 people have been
killed and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 of
them fleeing abroad.
The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervene
in Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) or
Rwanda (800,000).
Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in military
actions). The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to the
dangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less. And the
Kosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on their
oppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.
Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: how
would NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes against
an Indian government that was fighting to prevent its
majority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?
All this should make outsiders think hard before letting slip
their airborne dogs of war. Yet one consideration strengthens the
case, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.
It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is not
contained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its own
discontented ethnic-Albanian minority. The ensuing civil war would
probably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eager
to break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.
Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greece
would be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey
(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil war
this decade). Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.
If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would be
bombs well dropped.
Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombs
would be enough. Armed intervention, if it were to work, would also
require specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end to
repression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,
preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holy
places.
At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilize
Macedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnic
Albanians). But even this would probably be too little if the
interveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as well
as in the air, to keep the peace.
That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,
attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to uphold
Serbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would be
seen as yet another empty western gesture. (To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finally
tumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so its
economy is no longer merely drifting but is officially in
recession.
The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, as
the yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.
Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to be
seen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.
Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic and
political turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump to
follow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?
On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show of
acting together to fend off the danger. They announced no new
policies, but did back their soothing words with determined
intervention in the foreign-exchange markets.
The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.
The respite is likely to prove short-lived. Asia's nightmare, and
the West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,
are far from over.
A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should have
been done to stop it happening, and what should be done now to
restore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the time
being, damage control and crisis management remain the orders of
the day.
Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn and
acted upon. Japan must and can act decisively to revive its
economy.
It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fate
of the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.
The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix. GDP fell by an
annualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia and
Indonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecasts
suggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.
As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, plead
and affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most part
this is a sideshow. If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,
Japanese leadership, now is the time.
Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills. But it affects
Asia in two ways. Lack of demand in its economy much the region's
biggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way to
recovery.
Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia's
GDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea and
Taiwan. In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantage
that the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'
currencies.
On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan and
a stronger yen. But arranging both is tricky, even supposing that
Japan can summon the will to do so.
This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair and
yet it can be resolved. In itself, the harm that a weak yen does to
Asia is not great. The yen has fallen over the past couple of
months, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asian
currencies than a year ago.
Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,
other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,
export quite different goods: their competitiveness in third
markets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.
All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to pay
for a speedier recovery in Japan.
To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheap
yen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.
Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banks
makes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal or
monetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, not
merely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing. And so the
litany of despair goes on.
Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.
Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective. The
problems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can be
dealt with.
Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demand
with monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess and
vigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that be
enough to make the world economy a safe place?
No. Risk can be reduced but not eliminated. A devaluation of
China's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to the
region's other economies. The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probably
give way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluations
across the region.
With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recent
fall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, not
an overvalued currency. But China may devalue anyway, and that
would be scary.
Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,
especially Wall Street. If more bad news from Asia causes equity
prices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would be
set for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia. This remains the
likeliest channel of contagion.
America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of its
GDP. All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relatively
modest 2.4 percent of GDP. Even if its sales to the region fell by
25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.
This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect in
the United States. Also, the faster-than-expected recovery in
continental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in world
demand.
Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almost
certainly have raised America's interest rates by now. Indeed,
there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheating
despite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumer
spending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3
percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.
Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing more
capital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.
Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter. Moves
in either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, but
on balance one that is worth taking.
Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand in
Japan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better served
by economic stability in the United States than by a concern to
keep American interest rates low.
If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have to
raise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now. That would
deal Asia a worse blow.
A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States to
keep its interest rates down. America was worried about the
tumbling dollar and slow growth. Japan obliged, despite signs that
its economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.
Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake. It is a
lesson worth pondering. (To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finally
tumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so its
economy is no longer merely drifting but is officially in
recession.
The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, as
the yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.
Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to be
seen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.
Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic and
political turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump to
follow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?
On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show of
acting together to fend off the danger. They announced no new
policies, but did back their soothing words with determined
intervention in the foreign-exchange markets.
The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.
The respite is likely to prove short-lived. Asia's nightmare, and
the West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,
are far from over.
A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should have
been done to stop it happening, and what should be done now to
restore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the time
being, damage control and crisis management remain the orders of
the day.
Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn and
acted upon. Japan must and can act decisively to revive its
economy.
It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fate
of the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.
The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix. GDP fell by an
annualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia and
Indonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecasts
suggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.
As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, plead
and affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most part
this is a sideshow. If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,
Japanese leadership, now is the time.
Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills. But it affects
Asia in two ways. Lack of demand in its economy much the region's
biggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way to
recovery.
Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia's
GDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea and
Taiwan. In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantage
that the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'
currencies.
On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan and
a stronger yen. But arranging both is tricky, even supposing that
Japan can summon the will to do so.
This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair and
yet it can be resolved. In itself, the harm that a weak yen does to
Asia is not great. The yen has fallen over the past couple of
months, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asian
currencies than a year ago.
Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,
other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,
export quite different goods: their competitiveness in third
markets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.
All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to pay
for a speedier recovery in Japan.
To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheap
yen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.
Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banks
makes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal or
monetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, not
merely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing. And so the
litany of despair goes on.
Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.
Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective. The
problems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can be
dealt with.
Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demand
with monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess and
vigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that be
enough to make the world economy a safe place?
No. Risk can be reduced but not eliminated. A devaluation of
China's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to the
region's other economies. The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probably
give way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluations
across the region.
With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recent
fall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, not
an overvalued currency. But China may devalue anyway, and that
would be scary.
Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,
especially Wall Street. If more bad news from Asia causes equity
prices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would be
set for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia. This remains the
likeliest channel of contagion.
America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of its
GDP. All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relatively
modest 2.4 percent of GDP. Even if its sales to the region fell by
25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.
This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect in
the United States. Also, the faster-than-expected recovery in
continental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in world
demand.
Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almost
certainly have raised America's interest rates by now. Indeed,
there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheating
despite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumer
spending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3
percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.
Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing more
capital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.
Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter. Moves
in either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, but
on balance one that is worth taking.
Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand in
Japan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better served
by economic stability in the United States than by a concern to
keep American interest rates low.
If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have to
raise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now. That would
deal Asia a worse blow.
A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States to
keep its interest rates down. America was worried about the
tumbling dollar and slow growth. Japan obliged, despite signs that
its economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.
Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake. It is a
lesson worth pondering. (To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finally
tumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so its
economy is no longer merely drifting but is officially in
recession.
The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, as
the yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.
Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to be
seen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.
Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic and
political turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump to
follow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?
On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show of
acting together to fend off the danger. They announced no new
policies, but did back their soothing words with determined
intervention in the foreign-exchange markets.
The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.
The respite is likely to prove short-lived. Asia's nightmare, and
the West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,
are far from over.
A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should have
been done to stop it happening, and what should be done now to
restore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the time
being, damage control and crisis management remain the orders of
the day.
Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn and
acted upon. Japan must and can act decisively to revive its
economy.
It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fate
of the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.
The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix. GDP fell by an
annualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia and
Indonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecasts
suggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.
As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, plead
and affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most part
this is a sideshow. If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,
Japanese leadership, now is the time.
Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills. But it affects
Asia in two ways. Lack of demand in its economy much the region's
biggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way to
recovery.
Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia's
GDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea and
Taiwan. In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantage
that the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'
currencies.
On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan and
a stronger yen. But arranging both is tricky, even supposing that
Japan can summon the will to do so.
This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair and
yet it can be resolved. In itself, the harm that a weak yen does to
Asia is not great. The yen has fallen over the past couple of
months, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asian
currencies than a year ago.
Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,
other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,
export quite different goods: their competitiveness in third
markets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.
All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to pay
for a speedier recovery in Japan.
To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheap
yen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.
Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banks
makes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal or
monetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, not
merely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing. And so the
litany of despair goes on.
Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.
Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective. The
problems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can be
dealt with.
Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demand
with monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess and
vigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that be
enough to make the world economy a safe place?
No. Risk can be reduced but not eliminated. A devaluation of
China's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to the
region's other economies. The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probably
give way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluations
across the region.
With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recent
fall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, not
an overvalued currency. But China may devalue anyway, and that
would be scary.
Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,
especially Wall Street. If more bad news from Asia causes equity
prices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would be
set for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia. This remains the
likeliest channel of contagion.
America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of its
GDP. All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relatively
modest 2.4 percent of GDP. Even if its sales to the region fell by
25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.
This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect in
the United States. Also, the faster-than-expected recovery in
continental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in world
demand.
Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almost
certainly have raised America's interest rates by now. Indeed,
there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheating
despite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumer
spending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3
percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.
Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing more
capital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.
Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter. Moves
in either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, but
on balance one that is worth taking.
Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand in
Japan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better served
by economic stability in the United States than by a concern to
keep American interest rates low.
If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have to
raise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now. That would
deal Asia a worse blow.
A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States to
keep its interest rates down. America was worried about the
tumbling dollar and slow growth. Japan obliged, despite signs that
its economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.
Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake. It is a
lesson worth pondering. (To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
SEATTLE Bad as it might get for Paul Westphal next season combine the NBA labor dispute with a significant team rebuild, as
well as Gary Payton's mercurial temperament, and prospects are not
pretty it won't compare to the tub o' goo he found the first time
he replaced a local Sonic hero.
Westphal retains a souvenir from his unlamented Seattle season
of 1980-81, when he was traded from Phoenix for fellow All-Star
guard Dennis Johnson.
Two years after they won the NBA title, the Sonics fell to 34-48
and last in the Pacific Division the fastest, steepest fall for a
champion in NBA history. Along with leading scorer Gus Williams'
season-long contract holdout and forward Lonnie Shelton's broken
wrist after 14 games, Westphal's Sonic career lasted just 36 games
because of a foot injury.
Since he was a free agent after the season and left Seattle for
the New York Knicks, and since Johnson went on to stardom with the
Suns and Boston Celtics, including two championships, it can be
argued that Westphal was part of the worst trade in Seattle pro
sports history (remember, Brian Bosworth was a draft choice).
The Johnson trade ushered in a decade of mediocrity that didn't
end until Karl arrived in 1992. Now, after six years averaging
nearly 60 regular-season wins, the Sonics are at a crossroads
similar to the one two decades earlier on the backside of
success, striving to stay elite.
But the travail of his first Sonic go-round provides a couple of
lessons useful this time: Things can slip away quickly, and one
can't assume that today's pain will be tomorrow's pain.
Based on the disparity between the Sonics and Lakers in the
playoffs, and the disparities between L.A. and Utah, and Utah and
Chicago, it's clear that the 60-win benchmark in the
expansion-bloated NBA has been cheapened dramatically.
By April, the aging Sonics had slid considerably. At least four
players in the rotation Jim McIlvaine, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkins
and Dale Ellis could no longer play the Sonic-style defense,
because of injury, age or inability. Should there have been an
injury to any one of the remaining regulars, the Sonics were doomed
to another first-round disaster.
While the return of Gary Payton, Vin Baker, Detlef Schrempf and
Hersey Hawkins would seem to bode well, they each did enough things
poorly in the playoffs to suggest that the team Westphal inherits
is more vulnerable than it appears on paper.
Sonic president Wally Walker will need to do more than simply
sign up free agents to fill vacancies. Years of failure to develop
young talent under Karl means Walker has to be extremely aggressive
and/or lucky to avoid a 10- to 12-game dropoff.
Think Karl would have said that? When Walker talks of Karl's
inability to be on the same page with the organization, it has to
do more with unshared goals such as developing young players than
it does with leaks to the press.
A growing assumption is that Payton will be the same headache to
manage for Westphal that he was to Karl. While Payton, 30 by next
season, isn't likely to transform as Johnson did, his dealings with
Westphal might prove more positive.
Westphal is a cooler, less emotional commander than Karl, whose
temper made for regular flashpoints with the equally dyspeptic
Payton. The relationship between Payton and Karl was frayed enough
to have become counterproductive.
Westphal made clear he will indulge a double standard with
Payton, as he did with Charles Barkley in Phoenix. If that
arrangement is understood and accepted by the team from the start,
rather than develop awkwardly over time, the tension drops
substantially.
The x-factor in the Sonic future is the bitterness that will be
generated from the impending lockout of NBA players forecast for
July 1.
The conflict has already prompted a withdrawal of NBA stars,
including Payton and Baker, from the team that will represent the
U.S. at the World Championships in Athens in August.
If they don't return, among the options USA Basketball is
considering is suing the individual players for breach of contract.
If that won't get Payton double ornery, nothing will.
Hard to know where the lockout, as well as the other variables,
will leave the Sonics by November. But if it gets really bad,
Westphal still has his bedpan.
The guy in the funny clothes Thursday mocked the torture chamber
known as the 98th U.S. Open, sidestepping the unforgiving rough and
striding jauntily through the eucalyptus and cyprus trees. He
didn't stop until climbing atop the first-round leaderboard with a
four-under-par 66.
That was good for a one-shot edge over Mark Carnevale. That was
reason enough for the USGA to consider testing only his equipment.
Stewart, 41 and in decline since winning a pair of majors, made
it look easy when things were meant to be flat-out miserable.
Player after player had declared Olympic's four-foot rough as
unfair as any ever encountered on the tour. Par golf was predicted.
With a shrug and a 2-iron, the carefree Stewart barely flinched
on a cool, overcast day in the Bay Area.
Stewart also was uncommonly good as he finished. He birdied the
last three holes on the course, something done only once before by Denis Watson at Olympic's 1987 U.S. Open. He birdied the par-4,
468-yard 17th a feat matched by only three others, Carnevale,
Jason Allen and Chris Tidland. He was one of nine players among the
156 to break par, and his 66 was the lowest first-round score in
four Olympic Opens.
And he seemed to greatly enjoy himself and his new-found
success. Meeting with reporters, Stewart feigned mock horror when
USGA official Les Unger pointed out that it had been a couple years
since he had been in the U.S. Open press tent.
Rightly so. He had finished well out of the running in the
previous four U.S. Opens, with 21st his best effort. He had won
only once on the tour over the past seven years, since claiming the
1991 U.S. Open in a playoff with Scott Simpson (his other major
victory was the 1989 PGA Championship). In his most recent outing,
The Memorial, he had shot an 83, taking a 10 on one hole.
Thursday, Stewart was a new man. He was dressed the same as
usual, wearing one of his trademark ensembles, a blue and plaid
look, complete with cap and knickers. But his game was sharper,
mixing pinpoint accuracy, great resilience and, admittedly, dumb
luck in piecing together a five-birdie, one-bogey effort.
On the short but tricky 288-yard seventh, he nearly holed out,
leaving a wedge shot three inches from the cup. Tap-in birdie. On
the 609-yard 16th, he left an iron shot eight inches from the hole.
Another tap-in birdie.
On the 17th, a converted par-5 and Olympic's toughest hole,
Stewart launched a 2-iron out of the rough and onto the green. He
rammed in a 45-foot putt for birdie and wiggled his body in
celebration. On the 347-yard 18th, he curled in a 12-footer for
birdie, again escaping the rough off the tee. Playing
conservatively, he used his driver just three times.
His closest pursuer was another unlikely Open contender,
Carnevale, who shot a bogey-free 67. The stocky 38-year-old golfer
had struggled mightily this season, missing the cut in 10 of 15
events and finishing no higher than 41st at the Phoenix Open.
But he hung with Stewart. Even when the inevitable happened when he realized how much uncharted territory he had covered. He
has one tour victory to his name, the 1992 Chattanooga Classic. Not
exactly a major.
Daly, winner of the 1991 PGA Championship and 1995 British Open,
has forsaken his driver this week, a courageous move for a man
longer off the tee than anyone. He has turned to his 3-wood,
leaving him some 35 to 40 yards shorter than the norm and conceding
long drive stats and bonus money. He's not happy, but he's in
contention.
HONOLULU As America basks in what may soon become the longest
economic expansion in its history, one state continues to struggle
with economic adversity. It is, curiously, the state that most
Americans naturally associate with luxurious good times and
unclouded skies: Hawaii.
The Hawaiian economy has been stagnant for most of the decade.
It has averaged only 0.5 percent growth per year since 1990; the
Bank of Hawaii is predicting no growth at all in 1998.
In an opinion poll last month, 34 percent of those asked said
they were worse off financially than a year ago, compared with only
15 percent who felt better off.
Japanese tourists, who account for more than a third of all
Hawaii's tourism, are still coming in record numbers, but they are
spending less and going home sooner. Their money, they find, does
not go far; the yen has depreciated 40 percent against the dollar
since 1995.
Mainland Americans, eager to spend some of their stock market
gains on a Hawaiian vacation, have taken up part of the slack. But
that is not much help. The Japanese, who take more presents home,
spend on average twice as much a day as Americans, despite their
recent belt-tightening.
The Hawaiian islands are also feeling the hangover from the
party they threw in the late 1980s, mostly with Japanese money.
Japanese investors ploughed money into Hawaiian property, sending
prices to dizzying levels.
The Hyatt Regency Waikoloa, on the big island of Hawaii, is a
typical bubble development. The 1,200-room hotel was built in 1988
by a group of Japanese investors for an estimated $360 million.
Guests are ferried to their rooms by water taxi; employees scurry
about in underground tunnels. You can pay to swim with live
dolphins in a 2 million-gallon lagoon.
Then there has been bad luck. Hurricane Iniki leveled the island
of Kauai in 1992, causing nearly $2 billion-worth of damage.
In the state as a whole, eight sugar-cane plantations have
closed in the past decade, in part because Asia can grow the crop
more cheaply, but also because Americans are using more
high-fructose corn syrup and artificial sweeteners.
True, but this is an expensive, highly-taxed, highly-regulated
little dot on the Pacific, and Hawaii cannot blame all its troubles
on Asia; it is also a lousy place to do business.
Not only is the cost of living roughly a third higher than the
American urban average, but government is far more centralized than
in other states.
Hawaii, for example, is the only state with one unified school
district operated at the state level. (Not surprisingly, the
schools get poor marks.)
Only Michigan and New York have a higher proportion of unionized
workers. The public-sector unions are particularly powerful. The
result is that Hawaii is 20 years behind other cities and states in
wringing productivity gains out of its public workers.
Each new public employee can count on 21 days of paid holiday,
14 public holidays on which he gets paid, and 21 days of paid sick
leave. Should that prove too stressful, he must be caught drinking
on the job four times in a two-year period before being asked to
resign; he is not sacked.
The result is that public managers can spend years trying to
accomplish something as trivial as changing the route of a garbage
truck.
Hawaii's powerful environmental groups are skeptical, if not
hostile, to growth and development. On its face, that is a good
thing. Hawaii has some of the most spectacular scenery in the
world, and tourists fly thousands of miles to see its white sand
beaches and stunning volcanoes.
These need to be protected. Yet the people most fiercely opposed
to development often earned their money on the mainland before
retiring to Hawaii; they are not unemployed farm workers, who might
benefit from a few more carefully managed projects.
Take the contentious issue of the airport on Maui. At present,
the airport does not have a runway long enough to take large jets
from Asia. A longer runway would bring more tourists, and would
also help business.
Gary Gifford, the president of the Maui Land Pineapple
Company, points out that the short runway makes it more difficult
to get fresh pineapples to market.
On the west coast of the island of Hawaii, a new international
airport generated a 26 percent increase in tourist arrivals in
1997. But the anti-growth forces will not countenance a bigger
airport on Maui and, so far, they are winning. 
The floundering economy sets the stage for a political showdown.
Hawaii is a Democratic bastion; the state has not had a Republican
governor since 1962. That may change in November.
Cayetano is being challenged by Linda Lingle, the mayor of Maui.
Lingle is not exactly what a political consultant would prescribe:
she is a white Jewish Republican, born in St. Louis. But she has
gained notice on Maui for getting things done and for drawing
business people into the administration.
Her finance director, Travis Thompson, is a former Boeing
employee who thought he was retiring to Maui. Lingle points out
that, while the rest of the state struggles to grow, Maui has added
jobs in five of the past six years.
Can she win? Lingle has been twice reelected as mayor, even
though registered Democrats in Maui County outnumber Republicans by
about 30 to one.
The powerful union leaders remain staunch Democrats; the rank
and file are not so sure. A recent poll put Lingle solidly ahead of
Cayetano, 49 percent to 35 percent.
The better question is whether she can really change things if
she does win. For all the angst over the economy, there is
tremendous grass-roots resistance to economic reform.
In 1997, Cayetano and legislative leaders convened an Economic
Revitalization Task Force made up of government officials, business
leaders and organized labor. Months later, the group returned with
proposals for reducing the cost of doing business, streamlining the
regulatory process, boosting tourism and improving the public
schools.
Some changes were made, including a big cut in the personal
income tax, but much of the package was torn up.
The Hawaiian economy has not fallen off the cliff. But it has,
after climbing for decades, reached a long plateau. The state grew
at an average rate of 4.4 percent between 1959 and 1990.
The Sonics trailed the Los Angeles Lakers at halftime in Game 4
of the Western Conference semifinals. Even more frustrating, they
were getting walloped in the series on their way to playoff
elimination.
So Payton exploded in the locker room and in the face of
former coach George Karl, who barked back. The scene reflected the
type of confrontations (usually over game-plan disagreements) that
Karl and Payton engaged in several times last season, seemingly
many times during their relationship.
The Sonics went on to lose that game 112-100. Payton followed
the tirade with an explosion on the court 31 points, 13 assists
and eight rebounds in 41 minutes yet his monster game did not
translate into a victory. One loss later, Karl was finished as
Sonics coach.
If Paul Westphal did not know already, he has a clue now.
Westphal, who was named the Sonics' new coach Wednesday, must get
more out of Payton in subtle ways than his predecessor did.
Karl struggled with his point guard from start to finish.
Veteran Sonic players complained privately that Karl established
rules such as players must practice to play then let Payton
bend them with impunity. They also complained that Payton sometimes
strayed from Karl's game plans or would sometimes distance himself
from his teammates in critical moments of games when his leadership
was needed.
After the Sonics were dropped from the postseason, Karl met with
president Wally Walker to discuss the team's future. One of Karl's
suggestions was that the Sonics should be open to the possibility
of trading Payton for several players if the team experienced more
second-round jolts. It was the second time in four years that Karl
made such a plea.
Karl admired Payton's skills. To most observers, Payton is the
best point guard in the game. Karl also knows that Payton turned
him into a $3.5 million coach. Karl helped Payton become a $12
million player.
Their relationship, while respectful, was airtight only for
public consumption. Karl continuously insisted on more from Payton.
He wanted a type of leadership Payton isn't ready to give. In
Payton's view, playing hard and producing every night is enough;
Karl also wanted a second coming of Nate McMillan, a vocal leader
in the locker room as well as on the court.
Payton, though, is a superstar. And with superstars come
baggage. Now, it is Westphal's turn to carry the load.
Westphal knows the makeup of his best player. Payton often does
not practice. He is volatile and emotional. Payton is so
competitive that when he doesn't win, he transforms into someone
whose raging persona rivals the Incredible Hulk. Karl never got a
grip on that part of Payton.
Perhaps Westphal will. He is cut from the same cloth. Although
Westphal is considered laid-back now, he was a terror growing up.
Westphal told a childhood story about getting kicked out of a
sixth-grade game. He thought the officiating was terrible and
committed a flagrant foul.
So his meeting with Payton in Oakland earlier this week wasn't
about changing the eight-year Sonic. Westphal merely opened the
lines of communication as soon as possible.
For as little as Chicago's Phil Jackson is given credit for the
Bulls' success, the glory is his. Sure, Michael Jordan makes all
the game-winning baskets, but he is canning them Jackson's way.
Payton's reluctance about practice is due in part to his
chronically sore back, for which he gets regular treatment. It's
not in the club's best interest that he risks aggravating the
problem in practice.
Payton, though, has missed just two regular-season games his
entire career. He is regarded as the Sonics' toughest player. Think
Westphal will ride him about practice?
That is a theory Payton already believes in. Westphal's problem
will be getting the 11 other Sonics to buy into it.
HONOLULU As America basks in what may soon become the longest
economic expansion in its history, one state continues to struggle
with economic adversity. It is, curiously, the state that most
Americans naturally associate with luxurious good times and
unclouded skies: Hawaii.
The Hawaiian economy has been stagnant for most of the decade.
It has averaged only 0.5 percent growth per year since 1990; the
Bank of Hawaii is predicting no growth at all in 1998.
In an opinion poll last month, 34 percent of those asked said
they were worse off financially than a year ago, compared with only
15 percent who felt better off.
Japanese tourists, who account for more than a third of all
Hawaii's tourism, are still coming in record numbers, but they are
spending less and going home sooner. Their money, they find, does
not go far; the yen has depreciated 40 percent against the dollar
since 1995.
Mainland Americans, eager to spend some of their stock market
gains on a Hawaiian vacation, have taken up part of the slack. But
that is not much help. The Japanese, who take more presents home,
spend on average twice as much a day as Americans, despite their
recent belt-tightening.
The Hawaiian islands are also feeling the hangover from the
party they threw in the late 1980s, mostly with Japanese money.
Japanese investors ploughed money into Hawaiian property, sending
prices to dizzying levels.
The Hyatt Regency Waikoloa, on the big island of Hawaii, is a
typical bubble development. The 1,200-room hotel was built in 1988
by a group of Japanese investors for an estimated $360 million.
Guests are ferried to their rooms by water taxi; employees scurry
about in underground tunnels. You can pay to swim with live
dolphins in a 2 million-gallon lagoon.
Then there has been bad luck. Hurricane Iniki leveled the island
of Kauai in 1992, causing nearly $2 billion-worth of damage.
In the state as a whole, eight sugar-cane plantations have
closed in the past decade, in part because Asia can grow the crop
more cheaply, but also because Americans are using more
high-fructose corn syrup and artificial sweeteners.
True, but this is an expensive, highly-taxed, highly-regulated
little dot on the Pacific, and Hawaii cannot blame all its troubles
on Asia; it is also a lousy place to do business.
Not only is the cost of living roughly a third higher than the
American urban average, but government is far more centralized than
in other states.
Hawaii, for example, is the only state with one unified school
district operated at the state level. (Not surprisingly, the
schools get poor marks.)
Only Michigan and New York have a higher proportion of unionized
workers. The public-sector unions are particularly powerful. The
result is that Hawaii is 20 years behind other cities and states in
wringing productivity gains out of its public workers.
Each new public employee can count on 21 days of paid holiday,
14 public holidays on which he gets paid, and 21 days of paid sick
leave. Should that prove too stressful, he must be caught drinking
on the job four times in a two-year period before being asked to
resign; he is not sacked.
The result is that public managers can spend years trying to
accomplish something as trivial as changing the route of a garbage
truck.
Hawaii's powerful environmental groups are skeptical, if not
hostile, to growth and development. On its face, that is a good
thing. Hawaii has some of the most spectacular scenery in the
world, and tourists fly thousands of miles to see its white sand
beaches and stunning volcanoes.
These need to be protected. Yet the people most fiercely opposed
to development often earned their money on the mainland before
retiring to Hawaii; they are not unemployed farm workers, who might
benefit from a few more carefully managed projects.
Take the contentious issue of the airport on Maui. At present,
the airport does not have a runway long enough to take large jets
from Asia. A longer runway would bring more tourists, and would
also help business.
Gary Gifford, the president of the Maui Land Pineapple
Company, points out that the short runway makes it more difficult
to get fresh pineapples to market.
On the west coast of the island of Hawaii, a new international
airport generated a 26 percent increase in tourist arrivals in
1997. But the anti-growth forces will not countenance a bigger
airport on Maui and, so far, they are winning. 
The floundering economy sets the stage for a political showdown.
Hawaii is a Democratic bastion; the state has not had a Republican
governor since 1962. That may change in November.
Cayetano is being challenged by Linda Lingle, the mayor of Maui.
Lingle is not exactly what a political consultant would prescribe:
she is a white Jewish Republican, born in St. Louis. But she has
gained notice on Maui for getting things done and for drawing
business people into the administration.
Her finance director, Travis Thompson, is a former Boeing
employee who thought he was retiring to Maui. Lingle points out
that, while the rest of the state struggles to grow, Maui has added
jobs in five of the past six years.
Can she win? Lingle has been twice reelected as mayor, even
though registered Democrats in Maui County outnumber Republicans by
about 30 to one.
The powerful union leaders remain staunch Democrats; the rank
and file are not so sure. A recent poll put Lingle solidly ahead of
Cayetano, 49 percent to 35 percent.
The better question is whether she can really change things if
she does win. For all the angst over the economy, there is
tremendous grass-roots resistance to economic reform.
In 1997, Cayetano and legislative leaders convened an Economic
Revitalization Task Force made up of government officials, business
leaders and organized labor. Months later, the group returned with
proposals for reducing the cost of doing business, streamlining the
regulatory process, boosting tourism and improving the public
schools.
Some changes were made, including a big cut in the personal
income tax, but much of the package was torn up.
The Hawaiian economy has not fallen off the cliff. But it has,
after climbing for decades, reached a long plateau. The state grew
at an average rate of 4.4 percent between 1959 and 1990.
 By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO It's impossible to call The Olympic Club tame,
under any circumstances. But the golfers playing in the 1998 U.S.
Open Championship who didn't take advantage of what the course had
to offer Thursday might have missed their best opportunity for
scoring.
Conditions for the first round of the Open were about as good as
they are going to get.
Despite some tough pin placements, the greens remained
receptive, and those golfers in the fairway could get a little
aggressive with their second shots. The result was nine under-par
rounds on a course that some predicted might not give up a handful
of low scores all week.
Payne Stewart showed how much damage could be done early, making
birdies on the last three holes to take the first-round lead at
4-under-par 66. Stewart finished before many in the field had even
teed off, but his score held up. Mark Carnevale ended up second at
67, while Joe Durant, Tom Lehman, Jose Maria Olazabal and Bob Tway
were tied at 68.
But perhaps the biggest cheers were for a golfer who finished at
4-over-par 74. Casey Martin, who has been the center of attention
all week for using a golf cart, was clearly the crowd favorite.
Martin said he had trouble seeing on his final two holes, which
might have contributed to his bogey-bogey finish. But for the
remainder of the field, patience was the most important quality,
and Stewart had the most of it.
There were certainly players who could relate to that.
Pre-tournament favorite David Duval ended up at 5-over-par 75,
while Davis Love III closed at 78 and defending champion Ernie Els
was at 75. Tiger Woods started off well, getting to 2-under but
then struggled down the stretch and found himself 4-over for the
opening round.
But for those who kept their cool during the rough moments and
nearly everyone had at least one there were birdies to be made.
Durant, who is making his first Open appearance, was the only
player to really challenge Stewart's hold on the top spot all day.
Durant, a former Nike Tour player who is in his second year on the
PGA Tour, came out hot, making the turn at 31 and then taking lone
possession of the lead at 5-under when he made a spectacular pitch
to within one foot on No. 12 and sank the birdie putt.
But Durant stumbled on No. 14, leaving his chip shot short of
the green and three-putting from the fringe for double bogey. He
got one stroke back with a birdie on No. 15 but added bogeys on
Nos. 16 and 17.
Durant played in the same threesome as Carnevale, who was
equally pleased with his effort at Olympic Club. This is only
Carnevale's second Open, and he hasn't had a great year on the PGA
Tour to date. In 15 events, he has missed the cut 10 times. But he
certainly found his game in the first round.
But as the veterans in the field can attest, getting there and
staying there are two different things. Stewart won his first U.S.
Open in 1991 and then didn't win again on tour until the 1995 Shell
Houston Open. And he hasn't won since. Still, Stewart has played
some good golf this year and said he felt his game was U.S.
Open-ready coming into this week.
Of course, 4 under par is even better. Stewart ended his first
round with a flourish. After making eight consecutive pars, Stewart
cut lose with a 9-iron for his third shot on the par-5 16th hole,
hitting it to within eight inches and birdie.
Then came his most heroic effort of the day. The 17th hole is a
monster hole, measuring out at 468 yards for a par-4. Any golfer in
the field would gladly take par there and leave. But Stewart let
his 2-iron run up 15 feet onto the green, and then he drained a
45-foot putt for birdie.
Stewart appeared headed for trouble on No. 18, when he sent his
2-iron into the right rough and then left his 8-iron 12 feet from
the pin. But he sank the putt for his third birdie and couldn't
have been happier.
JASPER, TEXAS At dusk on Friday night, at the end of a
difficult week in the east Texas town of Jasper, 80 or so boys were
playing basketball in the park.
Two games were in progress, one at each net. Boys rose up,
caught air, dunked baskets. Cars were drawn up close to the court,
doors open, pumping out a heavy urban beat into the sultry air.
Every player was black, all the attendant girlfriends were black,
all the hangers-on were black. There was not a white in sight,
apart from this correspondent.
The scene, and the conversation, would not be unusual in
inner-city America. In a town of 8,000 people, it gives pause for
thought.
Jasper is a quiet, pretty place, with forests and lakes that
look more like Finland than Texas. Down one country road you pass a
creek, a meadow dappled in sunshine, then you go on into dense
emerald forest.
This spot is where the last sinews on James Byrd's neck tore
loose and his head the face already shredded on the tarmac bounced off into a ditch.
The murder by three white men of Byrd, a happy-go-lucky black
man known in Jasper for singing songs and hitching rides, has
reminded Jasper and the rest of America that relations between
the races are as vexed as ever.
Unlike the rest of Texas, which breaks down along Anglo-Latino
lines, east Texas is almost wholly black-and-white. This is
particularly true of Jasper, which is 55 percent white and 42
percent black.
The knee-jerk reaction of the national media, as the story
broke, was to present east Texas as a white-trash outpost whose
public offices are occupied by closet bigots. In fact, as the
journalists soon discovered, Jasper has a black mayor and a black
school principal.
Even the Black Panthers, who sallied into town for a shameless
publicity session, praised the white sheriff, Billy Rowles, for his
efficient handling of the case. Byrd's family offered unconditional
forgiveness to his white killers.
Many times in the week, militant blacks in town from distant
parts to preach their particular form of racial separatism were
shouted down not by whites but by blacks, who said they abhorred
violence and vengeance. On the surface, outrage and sorrow brought
Jasper together.
The townsfolk were adamant that this awful crime did not
represent them. This was true. What represents the town, and makes
it so typical, is something much more subtle: a thousand small
prejudices and slights that blacks in east Texas feel, but whites
rarely notice.
It bothers blacks in Jasper that the bank-tellers are almost all
white, and that they rarely see a black waitress in the more
expensive local restaurants.
A group of black maids at a local hotel (speaking anonymously
for fear of managerial retribution) were particularly candid. They
felt humiliated, they said, when security people followed them
around the aisles in the Wal-Mart.
Younger blacks were particularly unhappy with Jasper's black
leaders, who, they said, were too deferential to whites. It had
taken the death of Byrd, they claimed, to wake up the local chapter
of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP).
On Saturday, Byrd's funeral showed the unstated segregation. Of
the 1,000 or so people who attended the service, fewer than 50 were
white.
Byrd was laid out in a black funeral home, eulogized in a black
church, and buried in the back part of the town cemetery, where
blacks have always been buried, out of view.
White supremacy may be marginalized, but it is still menacing.
The sheriff's claim that there are no Ku Klux Klansmen in Jasper
appears to be false. A local Klan leader insists that his group has
a strong presence there.
And already the town is bracing itself for a Klan march on June
27, with its potential for a bloody showdown between white bigots
and Black Panther hotheads.
The murder has also shed light on the fact that state prisons in
Texas and across the South have become purveyors of white
supremacy, recruiting susceptible men into violent gangs such as
the Aryan Brotherhood.
And what of Jasper? This is a community of mutual respect, but
it is still distinctly divided at all the levels that matter in
ordinary life.
What the boys on the basketball court cared about was not
whether white kids came and played ball with them. They cared about
good jobs, fair treatment and about the fact that Dennis Rodman,
the bad-boy star of the Chicago Bulls, had elected to pay for
Byrd's funeral. It sounded awfully like separate but equal. (To publish this compelling 1,025-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
JASPER, TEXAS At dusk on Friday night, at the end of a
difficult week in the east Texas town of Jasper, 80 or so boys were
playing basketball in the park.
Two games were in progress, one at each net. Boys rose up,
caught air, dunked baskets. Cars were drawn up close to the court,
doors open, pumping out a heavy urban beat into the sultry air.
Every player was black, all the attendant girlfriends were black,
all the hangers-on were black. There was not a white in sight,
apart from this correspondent.
The scene, and the conversation, would not be unusual in
inner-city America. In a town of 8,000 people, it gives pause for
thought.
Jasper is a quiet, pretty place, with forests and lakes that
look more like Finland than Texas. Down one country road you pass a
creek, a meadow dappled in sunshine, then you go on into dense
emerald forest.
This spot is where the last sinews on James Byrd's neck tore
loose and his head the face already shredded on the tarmac bounced off into a ditch.
The murder by three white men of Byrd, a happy-go-lucky black
man known in Jasper for singing songs and hitching rides, has
reminded Jasper and the rest of America that relations between
the races are as vexed as ever.
Unlike the rest of Texas, which breaks down along Anglo-Latino
lines, east Texas is almost wholly black-and-white. This is
particularly true of Jasper, which is 55 percent white and 42
percent black.
The knee-jerk reaction of the national media, as the story
broke, was to present east Texas as a white-trash outpost whose
public offices are occupied by closet bigots. In fact, as the
journalists soon discovered, Jasper has a black mayor and a black
school principal.
Even the Black Panthers, who sallied into town for a shameless
publicity session, praised the white sheriff, Billy Rowles, for his
efficient handling of the case. Byrd's family offered unconditional
forgiveness to his white killers.
Many times in the week, militant blacks in town from distant
parts to preach their particular form of racial separatism were
shouted down not by whites but by blacks, who said they abhorred
violence and vengeance. On the surface, outrage and sorrow brought
Jasper together.
The townsfolk were adamant that this awful crime did not
represent them. This was true. What represents the town, and makes
it so typical, is something much more subtle: a thousand small
prejudices and slights that blacks in east Texas feel, but whites
rarely notice.
It bothers blacks in Jasper that the bank-tellers are almost all
white, and that they rarely see a black waitress in the more
expensive local restaurants.
A group of black maids at a local hotel (speaking anonymously
for fear of managerial retribution) were particularly candid. They
felt humiliated, they said, when security people followed them
around the aisles in the Wal-Mart.
Younger blacks were particularly unhappy with Jasper's black
leaders, who, they said, were too deferential to whites. It had
taken the death of Byrd, they claimed, to wake up the local chapter
of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP).
On Saturday, Byrd's funeral showed the unstated segregation. Of
the 1,000 or so people who attended the service, fewer than 50 were
white.
Byrd was laid out in a black funeral home, eulogized in a black
church, and buried in the back part of the town cemetery, where
blacks have always been buried, out of view.
White supremacy may be marginalized, but it is still menacing.
The sheriff's claim that there are no Ku Klux Klansmen in Jasper
appears to be false. A local Klan leader insists that his group has
a strong presence there.
And already the town is bracing itself for a Klan march on June
27, with its potential for a bloody showdown between white bigots
and Black Panther hotheads.
The murder has also shed light on the fact that state prisons in
Texas and across the South have become purveyors of white
supremacy, recruiting susceptible men into violent gangs such as
the Aryan Brotherhood.
And what of Jasper? This is a community of mutual respect, but
it is still distinctly divided at all the levels that matter in
ordinary life.
What the boys on the basketball court cared about was not
whether white kids came and played ball with them. They cared about
good jobs, fair treatment and about the fact that Dennis Rodman,
the bad-boy star of the Chicago Bulls, had elected to pay for
Byrd's funeral. It sounded awfully like separate but equal. (To publish this compelling 1,025-word article, it must be
purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposed
to do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for a
final settlement with the Palestinians.
Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side of
the Jordan Valley. Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000
hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertile
regions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticultural
land.
After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, the
Palestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.
But the restrictions and confiscations continue.
Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research station
in the valley, which helped farmers with crop research and
technology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to the
Palestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one of
those closed security zones.
The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made security
zones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley. These hills are
traditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, who
are now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.
Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporary
territorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Oslo
agreement into permanent facts.
About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in the
valley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.
These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that they
come under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.
The effect of these measures is the steady migration of
Palestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as East
Jerusalem and Nablus.
It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparing
against. (To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposed
to do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for a
final settlement with the Palestinians.
Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side of
the Jordan Valley. Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000
hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertile
regions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticultural
land.
After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, the
Palestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.
But the restrictions and confiscations continue.
Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research station
in the valley, which helped farmers with crop research and
technology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to the
Palestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one of
those closed security zones.
The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made security
zones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley. These hills are
traditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, who
are now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.
Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporary
territorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Oslo
agreement into permanent facts.
About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in the
valley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.
These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that they
come under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.
The effect of these measures is the steady migration of
Palestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as East
Jerusalem and Nablus.
It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparing
against. (To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposed
to do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for a
final settlement with the Palestinians.
Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side of
the Jordan Valley. Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000
hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertile
regions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticultural
land.
After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, the
Palestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.
But the restrictions and confiscations continue.
Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research station
in the valley, which helped farmers with crop research and
technology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to the
Palestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one of
those closed security zones.
The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made security
zones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley. These hills are
traditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, who
are now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.
Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporary
territorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Oslo
agreement into permanent facts.
About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in the
valley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.
These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that they
come under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.
The effect of these measures is the steady migration of
Palestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as East
Jerusalem and Nablus.
It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparing
against. (To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate
is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.) (EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clients
in Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.) 
 By DALE ROBERTSON c. 1998, Houston Chronicle HOUSTON Unfortunately, Mark McGwire doesn't care for the
attention. He'd prefer to hit his home runs surrounded by peace and
quiet. He'd swap the batter's box for a vacuum chamber any day.
Not an option, though, is it? The world is fast becoming his
fish bowl. The press corps' full-court press is only now starting,
and as the McDinger count mounts, which seems as inevitable as a
new record for times being intentionally walked, the questions will
increase at the same pace. And they'll probably get even dumber
than he already thinks they are.
Each night this week, McGwire's pre-game blasts have traveled
farther and farther. One among many Thursday landed three rows
beneath the upper-deck scoreboard in the Astrodome. Impressive
stuff that, the kind of stuff you're going to tell your
grandchildren about someday.
But more impressive was what he did for real. His 33rd home run
in his 63rd game, coming in the fifth inning at the expense of an
already beaten-down Shane Reynolds, traveled almost that far 449
feet, according to the boys in the computer room. It also lowered
his 1998 ratio of homers to at-bats to one of the former for every
6.6 of the latter.
How good is that? His career ratio is already the best ever,
1-to-11.54, ahead of Babe Ruth's 1-to-11.76. Were he to continue at
such a preposterous pace, which would be flat-out impossible except
for the fact that he already has kept it going deep into June,
he'll hit 80 home runs by the end of the season.
What McGwire himself will talk about in the interim remains to
be seen, but it's likely to have a surly, argumentative tone. If
he's feeling good as he goes about trying to destroy sport's most
famous record, he's not showing it during his post-game rap
sessions with his friends in the media.
He claims to see no reason for the fuss, that it's way too early
to get breathless, never mind that he already has set the
major-league record for the most homers by the end of June, with 11
June dates left for the Cardinals.
I've been assured he will be a delight come September, when the
Ruth/Maris numbers are squarely in his cross hairs and he feels a
more pressing need to reflect on his place in the cosmos. Still,
you wonder why he can't relax, smile a bit and at least let himself
appear to be having fun.
McGwire is an equal-opportunity mauler. He unapologetically
roughs up everybody. Ray Lankford, leading off the fifth, had just
knocked a Reynolds pitch into the cheap seats. No matter. When
McGwire came up, he didn't give squat about Shane's hurt feelings.
He just parked another into some even cheaper seats with a flick of
his thick wrists. It was his second in two nights after a rare
three-game hiatus.
The monster mash gave the Cardinals just enough of a margin to
win the series. So, in the 7-6 squeaker, McGwire's shot would be
the difference. He had to speak afterward. He makes his own rules.
If he figures in the outcome, and only if, then he will suffer
fools, albeit not gladly.
Reynolds, for his part, was rendered speechless after what could
only be described as a shaky outing. Hey, how would you feel if
somebody had gone that deep off you?
These days, they're almost all McGwire's days, whether he likes
them or not.
 By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO When Tom Lehman walked off the 10th green Thursday
at The Olympic Club, it looked like his three-year run of
contending at the U.S. Open was in danger of coming to an end.
Lehman had just three-putted from four feet for a double-bogey
6, putting himself at 2-over for the day. But Lehman said that more
than anything, the hole strengthened his resolve to play better on
the remaining eight holes.
Lehman ended up making birdies on three of the final four holes
and finished only two strokes off the lead at 2-under-par 68. That,
of course, sets him up nicely for another run at yet another Open
title. In the last three years, Lehman has finished third, tied for
second, and third at the U.S. Open. But Lehman insisted Thursday
that this is a tougher course for him than the last three.
Lehman showed on the back side of the first round just how good
his best can be. He sank a 15-footer for birdie on No. 11 and then
drained a long 30-foot birdie putt on No. 15. Lehman added a
12-footer on No. 16 and closed with a six-foot birdie on No. 18.
But Lehman said that perhaps his best effort was his par save on
No. 12, where he hit way right off the tee, had to pitch back out
into the fairway and then hit a sand wedge to within 10 feet and
made the putt.
It also helped ease the pain of the double bogey on No. 10, when
Lehman hit his 7-iron second shot just left of the green, made a
great chip to four feet and then three-putted.
Lehman said coming into the tournament that he thought he should
have a good week. He finished third at last week's Buick Classic,
closing with a spectacular 65. So after his early troubles
Thursday, Lehman was more than pleased with the way his day ended
up.
Beneath a swaying Ponderosa pine, Adam Blunt stirs a large
kettle of beef stew with the same stick that just stoked his fire
and explains why he threw away a six-figure career to feed hippies.
Blunt will be serving food and coffee 24 hours a day for the
next two weeks as more than 20,000 members of the Rainbow Family
stream into his campsite in the forest west of Springerville.
His hair matted and his skin darkened by sun and dirt, Blunt
said money can't buy the feeling he has at that moment watching his
pot reach a boil.
Because Rainbow gatherings typically take place on public land
and attract tens of thousands of people, the Forest Service has
created a seven-member task force that follows the Rainbows,
briefing communities on what to expect from the influx, and trying,
usually in vain, to get the family to sign a use permit.
The task force is in Springerville because on Sunday, the
Rainbows officially chose the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest for
their annual Fourth of July Gathering For World Peace.
Task force members found out about the site the same way many
Rainbows did, by checking the group's Internet site. Locals got a
clue when busloads of people started showing up in town. If the
gathering's projected size is accurate, Rainbows could soon
outnumber area residents by a 4-1 ratio.
Davis said the size of the gatherings are detrimental to the
forest, and the Rainbows' refusal to sign use permits is not fair
to others who comply. So far, the rancher who owns the water rights
to Carnero Lake and a few surrounding springs has refused to grant
the Rainbows permission to drink and bathe. The Forest Service is
negotiating for a peaceful solution, so far unsuccessfully.
The ecologically conscious Rainbows hotly dispute claims that
they damage the forest. They say the forests belong to everyone,
and they plan to leave behind about 60 members to break down camps
and reseed the trampled meadows.
Davis admitted that the Rainbows do a good job at picking up
after themselves but said the sheer size of the event means the
area will be damaged.
In the camp, there is at least one dog for every three people.
Last year in Oregon, the Rainbows left behind at least 100 dogs.
Those that were caught had to be destroyed because of a parvo
outbreak, Davis said.
Aside from the forest, is what happens to the small communities
they typically invade. The twin towns of Springerville and Eagar
are home to only about 5,000 combined, and Apache is the most
economically depressed county in the state.
Many Rainbows have money and are spending it in stores, but too
many are relying on a rapidly disappearing charity system. The
Rainbows have been arriving for less than a week and already the
welcome mats have been pulled in.
Police have written dozens of citations for panhandling,
shoplifting and vagrancy, and most businesses have closed their
public restrooms.
An incident Sunday also has led businesses to lock their
dumpsters. A small party of Rainbow women went into a convenience
store and bathed in the bathroom, which is in the pantry. While
there they also urinated on several cases of beer and food, police
said. The goods had to be thrown out, and when they were, the
Rainbows were waiting, according to Eagar police.
That is one of the many tactics Rainbows have used at past
gatherings to get stores to throw away food, Davis said. Another is
poking holes in the plastic wrap on meat. The Forest Service task
force has urged stores to lock trash bins so there is no reward for
this type of behavior.
Two Rainbows were hospitalized Monday after a car accident, and
there has been a growing stream of visitors in the local hospital
emergency room for cuts, broken bones and other care.
The small hospital in Pineville, Ore., where the Rainbows
gathered last year, is still owed $32,000 in medical bills. Dave
Ross, CEO for the White Mountain Communities Hospital, expects to
face the same problem.
With Rainbows arriving from practically every state, and few
carrying insurance, it will be up to the county's indigent
health-care fund to shoulder the burden when they get hurt.
The hospital plans to set up a first-aid station near the
gathering to care for minor injuries, he added.
A large meadow near Carnero Lake will serve as the main
gathering site. On July 4, the group will remain silent until noon,
than gather in a massive circle to pray for world peace.
But now, most of the 500 to 600 early arrivals are concentrated
about a mile from the meadow in a ramshackle parking lot that
resembles a graveyard for buses. The Rainbows, whose bond is
non-violence and an aversion to commercial and government
bureaucracy, have been gathering since 1972. Inside a gathering,
eccentricity is commonplace.
The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.
OIL-SMUGGLE (Washington) Iraq is smuggling large volumes of
oil into Turkey in violation of U.N. sanctions, U.S. and Turkish
officials say. By James Risen.
JAPAN-ASSESS (Tokyo) News Analysis: In a few weeks, Prime
Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto will face nationwide elections as he
presides over the worst recession in more than half a century, a
limp stock market and the highest unemployment rate since records
began to be kept. Yet his governing Liberal Democratic Party is
overwhelmingly expected to do very well. The latest polls show it
with more than five times as much support as any other political
party in Japan. By Nicholas D. Kristof.
CHINA-MIDDLECLASS (Beijing) Like a phoenix rising from the
ashes of communism, the last few years have seen the a stunning
growth of a flourishing Chinese middle class. Ten years ago, this
group did not even exist. Today its core of independent businessmen
has been joined by a growing number of private-sector lawyers,
artists and employees of joint-venture companies. It is first
defined by what its members have: computers, microwaves, interior
decorators and increasingly, cars and homes. But the rapid
accumulation of material things has left its psychological mark as
well, infusing this group with a kind of independence, and carefree
optimism, that has not existed in China for decades. By Elisabeth
Rosenthal.
KOSOVO-REBELS (Pristina, Yugoslavia) After taking losses in
their fight with the Yugoslav military and bolstered by a huge
infusion of weapons and fighters from Albania, separatist rebels in
Kosovo Province have begun to hit back in recent days. By Chris
Hedges.
CHINA-OPERA (New York) Chinese authorities in Shanghai detain
the shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera that
is scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln Center
Festival. By James R. Oestreich.
NY-EMERGENCY-PLAN (New York) New York City, long viewed as one
of the world's most vulnerable places to terrorist attack, has
quietly undertaken an ambitious effort to foil strikes with deadly
germs or chemicals, according to city officials. By Judith Miller
and William J. Broad.
TOBACCO-SUITS (Undated) Even before the failure of the tobacco
bill, tobacco companies faced 800 lawsuits that have been filed
around the country. Two major trials of class actions suits are
scheduled to begin soon. More are likely. By Barry Meier.
RICHARDSON-PROFILE In choosing Bill Richardson to be his new
energy secretary, President Clinton has given him an assignment
which traditionally carries little glamour and less opportunity for
a high public profile. But no one in the capital expects Richardson
to recede into relative obscurity. By Neil A. Lewis.
RISQUE-AD-COLUMN (Undated) Sales pitches for a wide variety of
products are being infused with increasingly explicit images and
language, which until recently had been considered too daring for
conventional advertising. By Stuart Elliott.
EXCHANGE-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Just when it looked as if the
proposed merger between the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq
Stock Market had won the dissidents over, another critic has popped
up. And this one is bringing the specter of antitrust into the
merger. By Gretchen Morgenson.
GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (San Francisco) Sports of the Times column
by Dave Anderson on Casey Martin's adventure as the first player
ever to ride a cart in the U.S. Open.
SOC-WORLDCUP-VECSEY (Paris) Sports of the Times column on
hooliganism at TRACK-USA (New Orleans) Advance on the USA Track
and Field championships that start on Friday. By Frank Litsky.
The Sonics trailed the Los Angeles Lakers at halftime in Game 4
of the Western Conference semifinals. Even more frustrating, they
were getting walloped in the series on their way to playoff
elimination.
So Payton exploded in the locker room and in the face of
former coach George Karl, who barked back. The scene reflected the
type of confrontations (usually over game-plan disagreements) that
Karl and Payton engaged in several times last season, seemingly
many times during their relationship.
The Sonics went on to lose that game 112-100. Payton followed
the tirade with an explosion on the court 31 points, 13 assists
and eight rebounds in 41 minutes yet his monster game did not
translate into a victory. One loss later, Karl was finished as
Sonics coach.
If Paul Westphal did not know already, he has a clue now.
Westphal, who was named the Sonics' new coach Wednesday, must get
more out of Payton in subtle ways than his predecessor did.
Karl struggled with his point guard from start to finish.
Veteran Sonic players complained privately that Karl established
rules such as players must practice to play then let Payton
bend them with impunity. They also complained that Payton sometimes
strayed from Karl's game plans or would sometimes distance himself
from his teammates in critical moments of games when his leadership
was needed.
After the Sonics were dropped from the postseason, Karl met with
president Wally Walker to discuss the team's future. One of Karl's
suggestions was that the Sonics should be open to the possibility
of trading Payton for several players if the team experienced more
second-round jolts. It was the second time in four years that Karl
made such a plea.
Karl admired Payton's skills. To most observers, Payton is the
best point guard in the game. Karl also knows that Payton turned
him into a $3.5 million coach. Karl helped Payton become a $12
million player.
Their relationship, while respectful, was airtight only for
public consumption. Karl continuously insisted on more from Payton.
He wanted a type of leadership Payton isn't ready to give. In
Payton's view, playing hard and producing every night is enough;
Karl also wanted a second coming of Nate McMillan, a vocal leader
in the locker room as well as on the court.
Payton, though, is a superstar. And with superstars come
baggage. Now, it is Westphal's turn to carry the load.
Westphal knows the makeup of his best player. Payton often does
not practice. He is volatile and emotional. Payton is so
competitive that when he doesn't win, he transforms into someone
whose raging persona rivals the Incredible Hulk. Karl never got a
grip on that part of Payton.
Perhaps Westphal will. He is cut from the same cloth. Although
Westphal is considered laid-back now, he was a terror growing up.
Westphal told a childhood story about getting kicked out of a
sixth-grade game. He thought the officiating was terrible and
committed a flagrant foul.
So his meeting with Payton in Oakland earlier this week wasn't
about changing the eight-year Sonic. Westphal merely opened the
lines of communication as soon as possible.
For as little as Chicago's Phil Jackson is given credit for the
Bulls' success, the glory is his. Sure, Michael Jordan makes all
the game-winning baskets, but he is canning them Jackson's way.
Payton's reluctance about practice is due in part to his
chronically sore back, for which he gets regular treatment. It's
not in the club's best interest that he risks aggravating the
problem in practice.
Payton, though, has missed just two regular-season games his
entire career. He is regarded as the Sonics' toughest player. Think
Westphal will ride him about practice?
That is a theory Payton already believes in. Westphal's problem
will be getting the 11 other Sonics to buy into it.
The guy in the funny clothes Thursday mocked the torture chamber
known as the 98th U.S. Open, sidestepping the unforgiving rough and
striding jauntily through the eucalyptus and cyprus trees. He
didn't stop until climbing atop the first-round leaderboard with a
four-under-par 66.
That was good for a one-shot edge over Mark Carnevale. That was
reason enough for the USGA to consider testing only his equipment.
Stewart, 41 and in decline since winning a pair of majors, made
it look easy when things were meant to be flat-out miserable.
Player after player had declared Olympic's four-foot rough as
unfair as any ever encountered on the tour. Par golf was predicted.
With a shrug and a 2-iron, the carefree Stewart barely flinched
on a cool, overcast day in the Bay Area.
Stewart also was uncommonly good as he finished. He birdied the
last three holes on the course, something done only once before by Denis Watson at Olympic's 1987 U.S. Open. He birdied the par-4,
468-yard 17th a feat matched by only three others, Carnevale,
Jason Allen and Chris Tidland. He was one of nine players among the
156 to break par, and his 66 was the lowest first-round score in
four Olympic Opens.
And he seemed to greatly enjoy himself and his new-found
success. Meeting with reporters, Stewart feigned mock horror when
USGA official Les Unger pointed out that it had been a couple years
since he had been in the U.S. Open press tent.
Rightly so. He had finished well out of the running in the
previous four U.S. Opens, with 21st his best effort. He had won
only once on the tour over the past seven years, since claiming the
1991 U.S. Open in a playoff with Scott Simpson (his other major
victory was the 1989 PGA Championship). In his most recent outing,
The Memorial, he had shot an 83, taking a 10 on one hole.
Thursday, Stewart was a new man. He was dressed the same as
usual, wearing one of his trademark ensembles, a blue and plaid
look, complete with cap and knickers. But his game was sharper,
mixing pinpoint accuracy, great resilience and, admittedly, dumb
luck in piecing together a five-birdie, one-bogey effort.
On the short but tricky 288-yard seventh, he nearly holed out,
leaving a wedge shot three inches from the cup. Tap-in birdie. On
the 609-yard 16th, he left an iron shot eight inches from the hole.
Another tap-in birdie.
On the 17th, a converted par-5 and Olympic's toughest hole,
Stewart launched a 2-iron out of the rough and onto the green. He
rammed in a 45-foot putt for birdie and wiggled his body in
celebration. On the 347-yard 18th, he curled in a 12-footer for
birdie, again escaping the rough off the tee. Playing
conservatively, he used his driver just three times.
His closest pursuer was another unlikely Open contender,
Carnevale, who shot a bogey-free 67. The stocky 38-year-old golfer
had struggled mightily this season, missing the cut in 10 of 15
events and finishing no higher than 41st at the Phoenix Open.
But he hung with Stewart. Even when the inevitable happened when he realized how much uncharted territory he had covered. He
has one tour victory to his name, the 1992 Chattanooga Classic. Not
exactly a major.
Daly, winner of the 1991 PGA Championship and 1995 British Open,
has forsaken his driver this week, a courageous move for a man
longer off the tee than anyone. He has turned to his 3-wood,
leaving him some 35 to 40 yards shorter than the norm and conceding
long drive stats and bonus money. He's not happy, but he's in
contention.
SEATTLE Bad as it might get for Paul Westphal next season combine the NBA labor dispute with a significant team rebuild, as
well as Gary Payton's mercurial temperament, and prospects are not
pretty it won't compare to the tub o' goo he found the first time
he replaced a local Sonic hero.
Westphal retains a souvenir from his unlamented Seattle season
of 1980-81, when he was traded from Phoenix for fellow All-Star
guard Dennis Johnson.
Two years after they won the NBA title, the Sonics fell to 34-48
and last in the Pacific Division the fastest, steepest fall for a
champion in NBA history. Along with leading scorer Gus Williams'
season-long contract holdout and forward Lonnie Shelton's broken
wrist after 14 games, Westphal's Sonic career lasted just 36 games
because of a foot injury.
Since he was a free agent after the season and left Seattle for
the New York Knicks, and since Johnson went on to stardom with the
Suns and Boston Celtics, including two championships, it can be
argued that Westphal was part of the worst trade in Seattle pro
sports history (remember, Brian Bosworth was a draft choice).
The Johnson trade ushered in a decade of mediocrity that didn't
end until Karl arrived in 1992. Now, after six years averaging
nearly 60 regular-season wins, the Sonics are at a crossroads
similar to the one two decades earlier on the backside of
success, striving to stay elite.
But the travail of his first Sonic go-round provides a couple of
lessons useful this time: Things can slip away quickly, and one
can't assume that today's pain will be tomorrow's pain.
Based on the disparity between the Sonics and Lakers in the
playoffs, and the disparities between L.A. and Utah, and Utah and
Chicago, it's clear that the 60-win benchmark in the
expansion-bloated NBA has been cheapened dramatically.
By April, the aging Sonics had slid considerably. At least four
players in the rotation Jim McIlvaine, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkins
and Dale Ellis could no longer play the Sonic-style defense,
because of injury, age or inability. Should there have been an
injury to any one of the remaining regulars, the Sonics were doomed
to another first-round disaster.
While the return of Gary Payton, Vin Baker, Detlef Schrempf and
Hersey Hawkins would seem to bode well, they each did enough things
poorly in the playoffs to suggest that the team Westphal inherits
is more vulnerable than it appears on paper.
Sonic president Wally Walker will need to do more than simply
sign up free agents to fill vacancies. Years of failure to develop
young talent under Karl means Walker has to be extremely aggressive
and/or lucky to avoid a 10- to 12-game dropoff.
Think Karl would have said that? When Walker talks of Karl's
inability to be on the same page with the organization, it has to
do more with unshared goals such as developing young players than
it does with leaks to the press.
A growing assumption is that Payton will be the same headache to
manage for Westphal that he was to Karl. While Payton, 30 by next
season, isn't likely to transform as Johnson did, his dealings with
Westphal might prove more positive.
Westphal is a cooler, less emotional commander than Karl, whose
temper made for regular flashpoints with the equally dyspeptic
Payton. The relationship between Payton and Karl was frayed enough
to have become counterproductive.
Westphal made clear he will indulge a double standard with
Payton, as he did with Charles Barkley in Phoenix. If that
arrangement is understood and accepted by the team from the start,
rather than develop awkwardly over time, the tension drops
substantially.
The x-factor in the Sonic future is the bitterness that will be
generated from the impending lockout of NBA players forecast for
July 1.
The conflict has already prompted a withdrawal of NBA stars,
including Payton and Baker, from the team that will represent the
U.S. at the World Championships in Athens in August.
If they don't return, among the options USA Basketball is
considering is suing the individual players for breach of contract.
If that won't get Payton double ornery, nothing will.
Hard to know where the lockout, as well as the other variables,
will leave the Sonics by November. But if it gets really bad,
Westphal still has his bedpan.
DENVER Bill Russell went to bed at 5:30 Thursday morning, but
to say he slept would be a stretch.
There was the delayed flight from San Diego on top of a losing
streak on top of injuries and the fact that everyone back in L.A.
seems to be yelling for his head.
Coors Field did not seem like the place to get away from it all.
But less than 24 hours after the most demoralizing loss of the
season, Russell's Dodgers were the happiest they had been in weeks
with a 5-0 victory over the Colorado Rockies in front of a crowd of
48,029.
Dave Mlicki recorded just the eighth shutout in the four-year
history of Coors Field and Eric Karros drove in all five runs,
including a three-run homer that nicked off the left-field foul
pole.
For the record, the Dodgers (35-36) ended a four-game losing
streak and stayed within 11{ games of the National League
West-leading San Diego Padres, who rallied Thursday to win their
10th straight.
But as the rap music blared in the post-game clubhouse, the
numbers didn't seem to matter. As Chan Ho Park danced from the
shower to his locker, Russell smiled. He didn't care that the
once-formidable Rockies are a pitiful 11-21 at home. He has enough
to think about.
Russell got to relax a little after Karros' first-inning homer
off Jamey Wright (5-7) gave the Dodgers a 3-0 lead. In a season
weighed down by an ailing left knee, Karros had his second five-RBI
game. He has 19 RBI in his other 45 games.
With Bobby Bonilla, Eric Young and Raul Mondesi all out with
injuries, Karros' effort was critical. But it was Mlicki's
performance that might have been even more important.
Before the game, Ramon Martinez arrived in Denver after
receiving a third opinion on his injured right shoulder. Noted
orthopedist William Andrews saw what the others saw torn
cartilage and rotator cuff that likely will require season-ending
surgery.
While Martinez considers his future, Mlicki has been the only
Dodgers starter to step up. In his last two starts, Mlicki,
acquired from the New York Mets in the Hideo Nomo deal, has allowed
one run in 17 innings.
Against the Rockies, he allowed just two runners to reach base
and got 15 ground-ball outs. Unlike Wednesday, when Roger Cedeno's
error cost the Dodgers in the 12th, the club played great defense
behind Mlicki.
Paul Konerko, starting at third for Bonilla, made a diving stop
of Dante Bichette's fourth-inning liner that looked even more
important when Vinny Castilla followed with a double to the gap in
right-center.
Mlicki (3-4) got double plays in the first after Neifi Perez
opened with a single and in the ninth after Todd Helton opened with
a single.
And before Karros blew open the game with a two-run double in
the eighth, Mlicki worked out of a jam in the seventh.
With runners at first and second and two out, Perez came to the
plate representing the tying run. He lifted a fly ball to deep
right. Gary Sheffield retreated to the warning track to make the
catch.
It didn't work in New York, where Mlicki was the fifth starter
and bumped several times in the rotation because of rainouts.
Here, he is more than a fill-in guy. In three starts he has
moved to the head of the line.
ANAHEIM Angels manager Terry Collins says the Seattle Mariners
still scare him. But one can only imagine how the Mariners make
their own manager Lou Piniella feel.
A combination of poor defense and relief pitching by the
Mariners enabled the Angels to rally from a four-run deficit and
beat Seattle 11-5 before 30,268 at Edison Field Thursday night,
completing a three-game sweep of the defending AL West champions.
It was the Angels' fourth win in a row, their seventh in eight
games and their 16th in 18. They remained 1{ games ahead of the
Texas Rangers in the AL West, with the Rangers in town to begin a
three-game series against the Angels tonight.
Mariners third baseman Russ Davis made two errors that led to
two unearned runs. Two Mariners pitchers botched plays when the
Angels were willing to give up outs with sacrifice bunts. And even
Gold Glove winner Ken Griffey Jr. misplayed a ball that helped the
Angels score three runs in the seventh to take a 6-5 lead.
The Angels put the game away with a five-run eighth inning. In
all, the Angels had 15 hits, including three each by Gary DiSarcina
and Dave Hollins, and two apiece from Darin Erstad and Cecil
Fielder.
The Mariners bullpen came in with a reputation of blowing up
under pressure, and Thursday it lived up to it. The Angels scored
seven of their runs off the Mariners bullpen in two innings.
The key play of the game, though, took place in the seventh
inning with the Mariners leading 5-3. The Angels had runners on
first and third with none out when Hollins hit a towering pop fly
into shallow center. Griffey, who got no help from his middle
infielders, got a late jump and allowed the ball to fall in for a
gift single. The Angels cut their deficit to 5-4 on that play, then
scored the tying and go-ahead runs on sacrifice flies by Tim Salmon
and Fielder.
Angels starter Jarrod Washburn (3-0) appeared on his way to
getting his first major-league loss after falling behind early, but
he stuck around for 71/3 innings and got the win over Mariners
reliever Paul Spoljaric (3-1).
Mariners starter Jamie Moyer pitched well for six innings before
Piniella decided to go to his bullpen with a runner on and none out
in the seventh.
Going into Thursday's game, Washburn had done more than hold his
own since replacing the injured Jack McDowell in the starting
rotation on June 2. Washburn pitched into the seventh inning in
each of his first three starts and didn't allow more than three
runs in any of them. The Angels won all three games.
Washburn got the victory in two of them, missing a third win
only because of a fly ball lost in the twilight sky in the ninth
inning on June 8 vs. Colorado that allowed the tying run to score.
The Angels eventually won the game anyway.
Washburn had been particularly good in the opening innings
during his first three starts. He didn't allow a run in innings 1-3
in any of them, but the streak ended Thursday. Griffey turned on a
3-2 fastball from Washburn and put it beyond the short fence down
the line in right field for a 1-0 Mariners lead in the first
inning.
Then in the third, the Mariners batted around and scored four
times. Alex Rodriguez drove home two runs with a bases-loaded
single, Griffey added an RBI single and Jay Buhner had a sacrifice
fly. It could have been worse for the Angels if not for the catch
center fielder Jim Edmonds made on Buhner's deep drive to the
fence. Edmonds lunged and snared the ball before crashing into the
fence.
The Angels scored in the first inning on Salmon's RBI single and
again in the third when DiSarcina singled and eventually scored on
a groundout by Edmonds.
But the Angels trailed 5-2 in the sixth inning when third
baseman Davis handed the Angels a run. With Fielder (double) on
second and two out, Phil Nevin hit a slow roller to Davis. Davis
charged the ball, but it rolled under his glove for a two-base
error, allowing Fielder to score and make it 5-3.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. It took only 98 years, but the Red Sox
finally played a game in Florida that counted, and won it.
Derek Lowe would prefer not to count his wins by the year, but
for the moment, he has no choice. The last time the Red Sox
righthander won a game, he was pitching for the Seattle Mariners,
Tom Gordon was still a starter, and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays were
something you found swimming underwater in the Gulf of Mexico, not
treading water under Teflon-coated fiberglass in Tropicana Field.
The save went to Gordon, his 21st of the season and second in
two nights but first ever after he'd slept in his own bed in nearby
Avon Park.
One Sox player whose ticket was punched early was second baseman
Mike Benjamin, who left the game after striking out to end the top
of the fourth. Manager Jimy Williams said Benjamin jammed his right
wrist sliding into second base on a double-play ball after his RBI
single in the second. X-rays were negative, according to a club
spokesman, who initially had reported that Benjamin did not leave
the game because of injury.
Benjamin was not in the clubhouse after the game. Williams said
his valuable utilityman was day-to-day but sounded concerned that
the injury could have more lasting consequences. The list of downed
Red Sox second basemen is already a long one: Tim Naehring, Jeff
Frye, and Mark Lemke.
The Devil Rays had rallied to tie the score, 5-5, in the eighth
with a two-out, two-run rally started by a double by a still frisky
Wade Boggs, the Tampa native son who had three hits Thursday night
after celebrating his 40th birthday Monday with a home run.
While Lowe, who gave up home runs to Paul Sorrento and Mike
Kelly but had a 5-3 lead when he left after six innings, remained
on hold, O'Leary needed to wait just four days for the chance to
deliver another game-winner off Jim Mecir, who was with the Red Sox
last season in name only.
O'Leary, whose 10th-inning single off Mecir Sunday night in
Fenway Park made a loser of the Devil Rays, drove a ball into the
left-center-field gap off Mecir after walks to Mo Vaughn and
DH-in-limbo Jim Leyritz, who had three hits and a walk in a rare
start against a righthander. That provided the Sox with their third
straight win and seventh in eight games.
Springer the pitcher, not the talk show terrorist is a
knuckleballer who had success fooling O'Leary (ground out, double
play, whiff) but was less of a mystery to the rest of the Red Sox
lineup, which knocked him around for five runs and nine hits before
he left after Darren Bragg's single to start the seventh.
Much of the damage was done by Leyritz and Vaughn, who doubled
and scored in the second, singled home two runs in the fifth, and
drew a one-out walk off Esteban Yan that accounted for the winning
run.
While he is openly campaigning for a trade, Leyritz made it
clear again he just wants to play, period. That and have a contract
in hand for next season.
TOKYO Japan's leading politicians are furiously thrashing out
the details of what the government hopes will emerge as a landmark
blueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts.
And the blueprint is likely to be an important topic on Friday
during talks when the deputy U.S. Treasury secretary, Lawrence
Summers, meets with Japanese government officials and party leaders
on Friday.
After playing down the bad-loan problem for years, the
government now acknowledges that clearing away the loans may be the
single most important factor in building confidence overseas and in
giving a lift to the economy.
The problem loans, which have swelled to more than $600 billion more than the size of the entire Chinese economy have been a
drag on the economy for years but now the government seems
increasingly determined to clean up the mess over the next three
years.
Some foreign investors are wary of new promises from the
government because they have been let down so many times. But other
analysts and economists say that while enormous uncertainties
remain, there are signs that the government may finally be ready to
implement the Total Plan, as it is being called here.
The changes would take time but they could result in a sounder
banking sector, a more vibrant real estate market and a healthier
economy overall.
But Yoshitomi argues that up until now, only the politicians
have broken from the pack to tackle the bad debt while the
regulators and the banks themselves have shown enormous reluctance.
The Total Plan is being hammered out by 34 high-level Liberal
Democrat politicians and bureaucrats, who will convene a major
session next Tuesday to review a draft. The chairman is Okiharu
Yasuoka, a Liberal Democrat member of the lower house.
The plan has been through many versions and is still changing,
and about $17 billion has been set aside for it in the government's
$123 billion stimulus package. As described by government
officials, economists and bankers, the Total Plan focuses on the
bad loans and on the properties Japanese banks are stuck with
because they were the collateral for the loans.
In the past banks have often set aside reserves for questionable
loans but they generally have not sold those properties or
liquidated the bad loans. One result has been a huge drag on the
property market and a continuing burden on the banks.
The Total Plan calls for measures to encourage the banks to sell
the properties and remove both the loans and the collateral from
their books. This may be a wrenching process, for the sale of so
much real estate could drive property prices lower, and the
obligation to face up to the problems could force weak banks out of
business. This could be another blow to confidence in the Japanese
economy.
But supporters say that the plan at least offers a way out of
the mess, even if it is a risky and laborious passage.
This would be the clearest break from the current system in
which all banks, strong and weak, are pulled along together by the
government.
The government already has a Resolution and Collection Bank,
which can absorb failed institutions, but its activities are not
comprehensive enough to deal fully with bankrupt banks.
Ryuji Konishi, an economic consultant and former banking
executive who favors the idea, compares the bridge bank to a
fishnet that catched only the fish too weak to swim away on their
own.
Not surprisingly, the weak banks are extremely sensitive to this
proposal because they do not want to be, in effect, taken over by
the government.
Earlier this year, the government also put together a $221
billion bank bailout that would support depositors and help the
banks rebuild their capital.
But the banks have drawn only 1.8 trillion yen. Weak banks are
reluctant to ask for money for fear that such an admission of
weakness would drive down their share prices.
Some foreign investors would like to see the government put up
even more than 30 trillion yen, either through a bridge bank or
another rescue package.
SAN FRANCISCO By 3:30 Thursday afternoon, when Casey Martin
finally teed off his dream, the fog and chill and mist all were
rolling in from the Pacific Ocean. Martin's tale had been warm, but
now it would be played out in the chill of reality and competition.
The grandstand behind the first tee was packed. Melinda and King
Martin, Casey's parents, searched high and low for seats, and when
they finally were able to sit down, husband gripped the hand of
wife, father the hand of mother.
After that first tee shot, King Martin removed himself from his
wife and family and friends and walked alone for much of the way at
The Olympic Club, needing the solitude to steel himself so he could
watch his son swing through a dream.
Martin wished that he did not have to ride in a cart as he
stepped into it on that first hole.
Martin parred the first hole and bogeyed the second when his
approach shot spun off the green and he could not get up and down.
The media contingent was sizable and the gallery also was large as
he finally settled down on the sixth hole for his first birdie.
Another birdie two holes later, on the par-3 eighth, brought him
back to level par, and the tale was growing warmer and warmer.
So it was a no-brainer that Wisnall put his law business on hold
Wednesday afternoon, rushed down from Eugene to San Francisco, and
was at the ropes for every swing.
Here is a list of CAMPAIGN stories that moved through 2:30
a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved Thursday, June
18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved Thursday, June
18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
(EDS: Subs to change `what' to `that' in 7th graf. No pickup.) 
Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Thursday,
June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved Thursday, June 18,
through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of ENTERTAINMENT stories that moved Thursday,
June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
(EDS: Subs to correct reference to Ms. Anderson and spelling of
glamour in 20th
Here is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved Thursday, June
18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of FOOD and DINING stories that moved Thursday,
June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnists that moved yesterday
through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
ANAHEIM, Calif. The rock formation in left-center field at
Edison Field provided a perfect setting for the Mariners'
three-night(mare) visit to the Anaheim Angels' refurbished home.
In a game Mariner starter Jamie Moyer pitched well enough to end
the free-falling defending division champions' most recent skid,
two more errors by third baseman Russ Davis and two of the most
horrific innings of the season turned into an 11-5 debacle before
30,268 fans.
Left fielder Glenallen Hill dropped a line drive in the first
inning that was ruled a hit, leading to a run that negated Ken
Griffey Jr.'s league-leading 27th home run in the top of the
inning.
Moyer shook that off, got out of the inning, and happily sat in
the dugout when Alex Rodriguez's bases-loaded single, Griffey's RBI
hit and Jay Buhner's long sacrifice fly scored four runs in the
third inning.
Angels third baseman Dave Hollins drilled a sharp grounder to
Davis with one out and one on in the third inning, but instead of
catching the ball and starting an inning-inning double play, Davis
leaned over and the ball scooted through his legs. That led to the
Angels' second run.
After Cecil Fielder doubled, Moyer retired Justin Baughman for
the second out and appeared to have retired Phil Nevin on a chopper
to third. Davis charged, put his glove down, pulled it back up and
the ball skittered into the outfield.
When the Mariners went back on defense in the seventh inning,
Jeff Huson was at third base and Davis was sitting in the dugout
wondering why this is happening to him again.
After Gary DiSarcina led off the seventh with a single under
second baseman Joey Cora's glove, a pitching change was made. And
so was the game's complexion.
Paul Spoljaric fed Darin Erstad a pitch that was hit back up the
middle, slightly to the pitcher's right. Out of instinct, Spoljaric
took a stab at the ball and knocked it toward Huson, who fielded it
barehanded but threw late to first. No one covered third base,
allowing DiSarcina to keep running, putting runners on first and
third with none out instead of nobody on with two outs.
Cora, closest to the ball, pointed at it but did not give chase.
Griffey charged in but arrived too late to make the catch.
Anaheim loaded the bases when Spoljaric, fielding pinch-hitter
Craig Shipley's bunt, threw late to third base. Bobby Ayala, whose
sinker is supposed to produce ground balls, entered with a 5-4 lead
and promptly gave up long sacrifice flies that produced the tying
and go-ahead runs.
The first-place Angels, playing with supreme confidence, treated
Ayala rudely in the eighth inning, scoring five runs. Besides
surrendering five hits in the inning, Ayala uncorked a wild throw
to third base.
The bad news: most of the ticket buyers probably have been
reading, watching and listening about a team that has lost five
straight and 14 of its past 17 games to fall into the division
cellar.
ANAHEIM, Calif. The rock formation in left-center field at
Edison Field provided a perfect setting for the Mariners'
three-night(mare) visit to the Anaheim Angels' refurbished home.
In a game Mariner starter Jamie Moyer pitched well enough to end
the free-falling defending division champions' most recent skid,
two more errors by third baseman Russ Davis and two of the most
horrific innings of the season turned into an 11-5 debacle before
30,268 fans.
Left fielder Glenallen Hill dropped a line drive in the first
inning that was ruled a hit, leading to a run that negated Ken
Griffey Jr.'s league-leading 27th home run in the top of the
inning.
Moyer shook that off, got out of the inning, and happily sat in
the dugout when Alex Rodriguez's bases-loaded single, Griffey's RBI
hit and Jay Buhner's long sacrifice fly scored four runs in the
third inning.
Angels third baseman Dave Hollins drilled a sharp grounder to
Davis with one out and one on in the third inning, but instead of
catching the ball and starting an inning-inning double play, Davis
leaned over and the ball scooted through his legs. That led to the
Angels' second run.
After Cecil Fielder doubled, Moyer retired Justin Baughman for
the second out and appeared to have retired Phil Nevin on a chopper
to third. Davis charged, put his glove down, pulled it back up and
the ball skittered into the outfield.
When the Mariners went back on defense in the seventh inning,
Jeff Huson was at third base and Davis was sitting in the dugout
wondering why this is happening to him again.
After Gary DiSarcina led off the seventh with a single under
second baseman Joey Cora's glove, a pitching change was made. And
so was the game's complexion.
Paul Spoljaric fed Darin Erstad a pitch that was hit back up the
middle, slightly to the pitcher's right. Out of instinct, Spoljaric
took a stab at the ball and knocked it toward Huson, who fielded it
barehanded but threw late to first. No one covered third base,
allowing DiSarcina to keep running, putting runners on first and
third with none out instead of nobody on with two outs.
Cora, closest to the ball, pointed at it but did not give chase.
Griffey charged in but arrived too late to make the catch.
Anaheim loaded the bases when Spoljaric, fielding pinch-hitter
Craig Shipley's bunt, threw late to third base. Bobby Ayala, whose
sinker is supposed to produce ground balls, entered with a 5-4 lead
and promptly gave up long sacrifice flies that produced the tying
and go-ahead runs.
The first-place Angels, playing with supreme confidence, treated
Ayala rudely in the eighth inning, scoring five runs. Besides
surrendering five hits in the inning, Ayala uncorked a wild throw
to third base.
The bad news: most of the ticket buyers probably have been
reading, watching and listening about a team that has lost five
straight and 14 of its past 17 games to fall into the division
cellar.
Washington's day-after obituaries opened with scathing sound
bites from Democrats and promises to pummel Republicans on tobacco
in November.
But Republicans are betting that while tobacco has replaced
Monica Lewinsky as the hottest Beltway topic this summer, it's no
burning issue in the hinterlands. By the time November rolls
around, they calculate, voters will have forgotten the big tobacco
bill, which even legislators didn't fully understand.
Still just in case backdoor negotiations are continuing to
see if any kind of legislation might be revived. House Speaker Newt
Gingrich suggested a much scaled-back version Thursday, but he
offered few details.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is teaming with Orrin Hatch,
R-Utah, to fashion a new bill that would keep the key regulatory
and tax penalties intended to discourage smoking, but without the
extra baggage from both parties that ultimately brought down the
original bill sponsored by John McCain, R-Ariz.
Republicans would like to immunize themselves from the tobacco
issue by passing a narrow bill to encourage education and other
efforts to reduce teenage smoking. The House leadership's version
would contain no tax increase.
Without revenue, such a bill would allow Republicans to say they
are doing something to cut teen smoking but avoid the charge that
they are raising taxes and expanding government with the big new
federal programs.
The tobacco legislation has taken so many surprising turns dead one day and alive the next and has developed so many
shifting political crosscurrents that even seasoned lobbyists won't
hazard a guess as to what will happen next.
Conservative publisher Bill Kristol said Republicans will
probably go home for the July 4 recess to see how voters react. If
there's a big yawn, as Kristol suspects, nothing more will happen.
But Democrats clearly smell an issue. Tobacco companies are now
the Great Satan of American society, polls show. And while polls
consistently show that most people hold smokers, not tobacco
companies, responsible for their smoking, sentiments reverse when
it comes to teenagers.
Yet when asked what teens do that most concerns them,
Fitzpatrick's polls show 39 percent say drugs; 17 percent say
gangs, crime and random violence; 9 percent say reckless driving
and another 9 percent alcohol; 7 percent say sex; and 2 percent
answer smoking.
SAN FRANCISCO After anguishing for weeks over how to cope with
Viagra mania, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's biggest HMO, will
announce plans Friday to exclude coverage of the popular blue pill
for male impotence.
In addition, the HMO's new national policy will apply to other
prescription treatments for erectile dysfunction, including
suppositories and pills not yet on the market.
The decision was reached after an unprecedented national policy
review that had a team of physicians, ethicists and pharmacists
delving into such issues as the medical necessity for erections and
the dangers of recreational use of pills like Viagra.
A stunning 2 million prescriptions have been written for Pfizer
Inc.'s Viagra since it was approved by the Food and Drug
Administration in April making Viagra the most successful new
pharmaceutical on record.
It's become a staple of late-night talk-show banter, so easy to
purchase that one can order it over the Internet. But it's
expensive selling wholesale for $7 a pill, retail for about $9 or
$10.
In the last analysis, though, economic factors, as opposed to
medical issues, decided the question for Kaiser. Even if users were
limited to 10 pills a month, the HMO estimated that the cost would
exceed $100 million a year.
By comparison, Kaiser dispensed only $59 million worth of
anti-virals last year, a category that includes all the protease
inhibitors and other expensive drugs used to fight AIDS.
Kaiser's decision overrules some regional decisionmakers who had
hoped the HMO would provide at least limited coverage to help
certain patients.
Several other HMOs have adopted rules limiting Viagra coverage
to six pills or so each month. About half of state-run Medicaid
programs provide Viagra benefits. Standard Medicare coverage
doesn't include any self-administered drugs, although some HMO
plans have been extending Viagra benefits that generally match
what's being offered through commercial plans.
Viagra is the only FDA-approved pill affected by the new Kaiser
policy. But at least two other potential impotence treatments,
considered to be a year or two away from the FDA-approval stage,
also will be excluded, along with the so-called Muse suppository,
Kaiser officials said.
The policy will take full effect when standard HMO contracts
come up for renewal, generally the first of the year. Employers and
other health-plan purchasers would have to buy an optional
supplemental benefit plan if they want Kaiser to provide the
coverage anyway.
Kaiser doctors may continue to write prescriptions for Viagra,
and the drug will be available in the HMO's pharmacies. But the
standard $5 co-payment will not cover the cost.
In Northern California, where Kaiser provides HMO coverage to
roughly 2.7 million people, or 1 of every 3 insured residents,
Viagra has never made its way onto the list of reimbursed
medications.
She said excluding Viagra is inconsistent with policies that pay
for such things as seasonal allergy medications that also improve
quality of life, even if they don't treat life-threatening
conditions.
Patients and advocates specializing in erectile dysfunction
roundly condemned Kaiser's decision, calling it a misguided slap
against those who want erection problems treated as a disease
rather than a joke.
Shapiro said taking the pill helped him regain not only full
sexual function but also helped him fight bouts of depression.
Betsy Imholz, senior attorney for Consumers Union in San
Francisco, noted that Kaiser will pay for office treatments and
surgery for erection problems.
But some top medical experts took Kaiser's side, maintaining
that all HMO members should not have to bear the cost of the sexual
activities of a few men.
SAN FRANCISCO Some leading brands of home water filtration
systems, bought by tens of thousands of health-conscious consumers,
actually increase the amount of lead in drinking water, according
to a study released Thursday.
The study, commissioned by a San Francisco environmental group,
found that two common brands of water filters raised lead levels to
three times the federal standard and to more than 60 or 70 times a
more stringent state level.
Four other brands were found to have lead levels above the state
standard. In all, the six brands represent as much as 50 percent of
the $2.5 billion market for water filtration systems, the group
said.
In response to the study, one manufacturer, Franke Inc., said it
was withdrawing one of its product lines from the market and
offered to refund consumers the price of any recent purchases.
Franke said it will conduct its own test on the products and
work with the Center for Environmental Health in San Francisco,
which commissioned the study, to ensure its products meet public
health requirements.
Michael Green, executive director of the group, welcomed the
move and said his group's goal is to use the state's anti-toxics
law, Proposition 65, to force other manufacturers to do the same.
The study was conducted for Green's organization by the
Environmental Quality Institute at the University of North Carolina
at Asheville, which has done more than 50 studies of lead in
drinking water.
Lead is the leading environmental threat to children's health.
Even at low levels, lead has been shown to impair fetal
development, cause learning disabilities in children and lead to
miscarriages in pregnant women.
At a news conference Thursday, Green said the group had filed
60-day notices with the state pointing out that four of the
companies are in violation of Proposition 65, the state's
anti-toxics law.
He said the group had filed a lawsuit against a fifth company,
Omni Corp. And a sixth company, Ametek Inc., the leading maker of
home filter systems, has already agreed to remove lead from its
product by November as part of a legal settlement.
In all, the study looked at 16 home water filtration systems
that have separate faucets mounted on a sink and usually have
filters mounted below the sink. The systems range in cost from $100
to $300.
Over a three-week period, the study tested daily lead levels in
water that was left standing in the faucets. Many of the systems
have brass faucets, which contain lead that leaches into water left
in the faucet while it is not being used.
In some cases, the researchers found, the filtering system can
increase the corrosiveness of the water and increase its ability to
leach out lead.
Based on consumption of eight glasses of water a day, the study
showed that a filter made by Omni contained 35.5 parts lead per
billion, and one made by Franke contained 30.1 parts lead per
billion both well above the federal standard of 11 parts per
billion.
Four other products, made by Amway, Equinox International Corp.,
QMP Inc. and Waterboss International, were below the federal level
but above the stricter Proposition 65 level of 0.5 parts per
billion.
One independent authority who reviewed the study called it
sound. Donald Smith, a lead specialist at the University of
California at Santa Cruz, said that, if anything, the study
underestimated the exposure levels.
The Center for Environmental Health recommended that consumers
run water for 10 seconds before filling a glass to remove water
with the highest lead levels.
Franke and other manufacturers said they had not seen the study
and declined to comment directly on its results.
But many noted that their products had been certified as safe by
a national certification group and by the California Department of
Health Services, both of which use the less restrictive federal
standard.
Industry officials said the study underscored the problem of
complying with conflicting standards in California.
The head of the state's certification program said manufacturers
have long been warned that certification would not protect them
from Proposition 65 lawsuits. And he said the study might force a
re-evaluation of the federal standard.
The Proposition 65 suits against makers of water filtration
systems stem from a similar campaign by environmental groups
against the makers of kitchen faucets.
Using the California law, the groups have forced manufacturers,
at a cost of tens of millions of dollars, to virtually eliminate
the lead that can leach from taps into drinking water.
Eric Somers, an attorney for the Center for Environmental
Health, said that water filtration systems simply fell through the
cracks when environmental groups were pursuing faucet
manufacturers.
ATLANTA For the fifth June in a row, in company of the sailing
half of our family, we are headed for a week's sail and crab-cake
tour of the Chesapeake Bay. En route to Baltimore we enjoy a
traditional Delta breakfast -- two small cookies and coffee.
After a night in Annapolis, we enjoy breakfast at Chick and
Ruth's, where the Pledge of Allegiance tradition still holds, along
with New York bagels, fat cheese omelets, and Philadelphia
scrapple. At 8:30 in the morning everyone in Chick and Ruth's is
commanded to stop eating, stand up, place right hand over heart,
and recite the Pledge. They've been doing that for nearly a half
century, and people spend the night in Annapolis so they can
participate. With the Naval Academy just across the way and history
all around, you feel a tingle of patriotism in Chick and Ruth's.
The weather is cool and breezy, a sailor's delight. In good
weather, sailing is no more complicated than flying a kite and
operating a hay baler at the same time. Our boat is 35 feet long
with a 40-foot mast. Two large pieces of cloth are attached to the
mast. Raised up and down, set this way or that, they either pull,
or push, the boat along. I haven't figured out which. This is the
way Columbus discovered America.
A sailboat has about two dozen ropes. You have to know the
ropes, as the saying goes. Sailing a boat is a pleasurable
experience as long as the weather is good and you don't get run
down by a freighter hauling televisions from Japan. When the
weather turns, there is some question about why people at the end
of the 20th century are spending their vacation traveling like
Christopher Columbus when perfectly good diesel engines are being
manufactured, even in Detroit.
We stroll past Camden Yards and think about hanging around to
see the Braves but decide to sail on and catch the Braves back in
Atlanta. Wise decision. Braves lose.
After a night in Rock Hill on the Eastern Shore, we begin an
all-day sail down the bay to Oxford. Senior members of the crew go
ashore for a night at the Robert Morris Inn, built sometime before
1710. James Michener, who stayed there when he was researching his
Chesapeake book, said the Robert Morris serves the best crab cakes
on the bay. We find no reason to dispute the famous writer.
Leaving Oxford, it is D-Day, the Sixth of June, anniversary of
the stormy allied channel crossing to the Normandy beaches, and to
quote Lewis Grizzard, I'm not feeling so good myself. We are
bobbing around in the Choptank River, which is not at all a river
like the Flint or Chattahoochee. It's more the size of the Indian
Ocean, and 25-knot winds are kicking up 4- and 5-foot waves,
according to small craft warnings on the weather radio. We are in a
very small craft.
A sailboat in rough weather doesn't ride on an even keel. One
side is up in the air, the other deep into the water. This causes
the helmsman to sit at an approximately 45-degree angle. The
company that comes up with Velcro seats in helmsmen's breeches will
make a fortune.
Thanks to expert seamanship by the captain, a.k.a. our downtown
son, we arrive safely in St. Michael's, famous for gourmet food and
an antique boat museum. Winds abate, and we welcome a good night's
sleep after a hazardous day at sea.
Sailboat sleeping is complicated. If you're planning a sailing
trip and have a choice of roommates, I suggest a midget or an
acrobat. Our bedroom in the bow is pie-shaped. Our feet come
together while our bodies sprout out in opposite directions. To get
into bed, you wiggle in, sort of like slipping your hand into a
glove.
The fifth summer on the Chesapeake came to an end with a sail
back into Annapolis. We didn't run aground, didn't get hit by a
freighter hauling televisions from Japan, didn't get lost in the
fog. Nobody fell overboard and we weren't set adrift by an anchor
coming loose in the night. We've become such experienced sailors
that once terrifying vacations are ho-hum. Next year we may try
something different, like an ox-cart trip across the Rockies.
WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I was
somebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.
I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in the
mirror, I lean my head just so. Then from far-off points I comb the
morning strands in a left-to-right swipe. It is their commute to
work.
I realized the futility of this exercise the morning after
Michael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging his
neck like superfluous follicles.
I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, the
epitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing on
his head but Air.
And look at heads around the league, and look at the leagues
below, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.
There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,
which has less and less suit every year.
And we're not just talking about black guys. During the playoffs
the Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coach
Larry Byrd look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.
Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.
Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits would
have caused it to lose its skin. But if that guy can parade lobar
nudity with pride, so can the rest of us. The fact is, we know we
can because Mike does.
Yes, this is about Michael Jordan. Just ask NBC. He's next to
God and bigger than the Beatles.
As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economic
hardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off the
little man. In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber into
the income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.
That's why I'm the one next to make a mint. I've applied for a
patent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to lose
it. Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,
Nogaine, is a winner.
The baldness-causing agent? That's secret, of course. Generally,
I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in the
blood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team. Now
you can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without his
blood pressure.
In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not his
jump shot. Hey, you take what you can get.
We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impediment
to excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, all
those creams and combs. With Nogaine, fuss no more.
The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by the
forces of baldness over those of baldness remedies. Utah's Karl
Malone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine. Loser.
No I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only be
the first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on my modern
social developments.
That's why, with women already starting to recoil from
scientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busy
working on a pill to restore male impotence.
Cox News Service columnist Joe Murray is on vacation this week.
His column will resume the week of June 22.
The Hearst News Service will file the following stories for
Saturday. If you have questions, call Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.
WATER-FILTERS (San Francisco) Home water filters intended to
remove chemicals and other impurities may be leaching lead into
glasses of water. A sampling of 16 under-the-sink filters found
that nine contained brass parts that leached lead at levels above
those considered safe under California's tough anti-toxics law. By
JANE KAY.
BATTERED-GAYS (San Francisco) San Francisco would be the first
city in the nation to fund shelter beds for gay men who are
battered by their partners, if Supervisor Mark Leno gets his way.
Although the city has helped three women's shelters in town, there
has never been a safe place for gay men fleeing domestic violence.
By CAROL NESS.
CHEVRON-POLLUTE (San Francisco) Chevron's refinery in
Richmond, Calif., tops the nation's list of polluters with more
than 944 million pounds of toxic waste produced in 1996, according
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. By JANE KAY.
BUSH-2000 (Washington) A crush of Republican heavyweights
helped Texas Gov. George W. Bush raise about $1 million here for
his re-election bid. The big turnout fueled speculation he will run
for president in 2000, but he says he still has not made up his
mind. By GARY MARTIN
INTERNET-MERGERS (San Francisco) Merger mania and business
unions are starting to sweep the Internet, as big corporations
pounce on smaller on-line firms that offer gateways to a new medium
and millions of consumers. By EDWARD IWATA.
COMPUTER-COLUMN (Undated) Pentium II notebook computers are
hot, literally. We takes a look at a couple of power machines that
will singe your lap if you're not careful. By DWIGHT SILVERMAN.
COMPUTER-HELPLINE (Undated) How to partion your hard drive to
recover wasted space and turn on your USB ports. By DWIGHT
SILVERMAN.
LYNCH-COLUMN (Albany, N.Y.) One of the darkest fears I hear
expressed by the 50 or so people who call me every day is that the
poor are ripping them off. I can understand resentment against
able-bodied adults who are on the dole. Especially when those
able-bodied adults happen to be collecting aid while they're behind
bars. By DAN LYNCH.
Since then, the list has been the source of much discussion and
consternation. What made it is moot. It's what didn't that irks us
most.
That's the problem with a list like this: Everyone who's ever
gone to the movies has a really loud opinion. The AFI determined
its winners from a tally of 1,500 voters (including filmmakers,
critics, historians and assorted bigwigs), who chose their top 100
choices from a ballot of 400 domestic feature films.
Orson Welles' masterwork is a movie everyone can agree on. It's
groundbreaking cinema, artful, poetic and thrillingly smart. No one
participating in the AFI vote would have dared leave it off their
list; it's too important, already too widely regarded as the
greatest movie ever made.
Naming the best 100 movies is a pointless task, because a good
film spurs intense emotional response. It inspires passion, anger,
terror, anxiety, laughter, grief or delight. Despite all the talk
of lighting and camera angles and well-crafted scripts, the act of
moviegoing is a profoundly subjective experience. Movies are our
secret worlds; when we enter, we give ourselves up to fantasy. The
films that hold us firmly are those that win our hearts.
For starters, she's a klutz. She hates makeup, speaks out of
turn, blows her first meeting with a husky matchmaker (she sets her
rump on fire) and is prone to wildly funny slapstick pratfalls.
Mulan, renamed Ping, pals around with army buddies Yao (Harvey
Fierstein) and Ling (Gedde Watanabe) and helps pursue the advancing
Huns. Along the way there are glorious vistas (inspired by David
Lean) and breathtaking windows into ancient Chinese culture: a
scene in which Hun soldiers ring the lip of a snowy crest is
arresting and unforgettable.
Yet it's a weird gumbo, this mix of adult subject matter,
radiant artistry, saccharine tunes and a buoyant, child-friendly
jokiness. It doesn't quite gel as though Disney yearned to be a
grown-up film but couldn't bear to abandon its family-movie
formula or the Happy Meal revenues it promises.
How cute, I thought to myself. Nothing like hot, summer days and
enterprising little kids. It's a milestone of almost every child's
life.
I pulled up closer to the stand and, sure enough, there was my
son and his friend, manfully minding shop over the card table that
held his mom's best Tupperware pitcher and an ice chest.
It was a good day's work. With the heat index at 108 degrees,
the two budding businessmen had a sure thing.
I wonder, why is $2.75 earned by standing in the suffocating
heat such a bonanza compared to the $5 a week we hand him for doing
his chores? He hardly takes note of those earnings, even though he
arguably has to work harder for them. No, the thrill comes from
planning, making and selling the product himself.
It's no different for adults. This sense of ownership be it a
program at church, a product on the shelf or a marketing plan translates into the difference between participating in something
and caring deeply about it.
It reminds me of the old joke about the ham-and-egg breakfast.
In producing it, the joke goes, the chicken is involved, but the
pig is committed.
I'm not sure we want our commitment to go that far, but it does
make a point. For most of us to achieve any level of sacrificial
commitment, we must feel our input is valuable and essential.
A few years ago, businesses were all abuzz about TQM, Total
Quality Management. It's pretty much the same philosophy described
above, practiced in the workplace. Small-group meetings are held
regularly among employees, their ideas and suggestions are sought
and implemented as much as possible. The message is loud and clear:
You are important to this organization, you make a difference, we
value you, we're listening to you.
TQP should become the buzzword for all of us rearing children Total Quality Parenting. We should strive to make each family
member feel important, feel valued, know that his or her presence
makes a difference. Most important of all, perhaps, it would create
opportunities to listen, not lecture.
It's a pretty easy trap to parent like an autocrat. After all,
that's what many of our parents did, right?
I have a hunch many of us at times treat our co-workers and
friends with more courtesy and respect than we do our own family
members.
Our son helped his friend close down shop for the day, hopped in
the car and proudly showed me his take-home pay. When you're the
youngest of three sons, it's easy for your accomplishments to get
overlooked. After all, two others already have been there and done
that.
I've seen a lot of lemonade stands in my life, but until today I
hadn't seen this one the one that my son and his friend made. I
couldn't have been prouder of him, and I told him so.
Roasting food over fire is the oldest form of cooking in the
world; picture the caveman licking his fingers after a satisfying
cookout.
Nowadays, it's as popular as ever, especially in the United
States, where more than 75 percent of households own a grill.
That's according to figures from the Barbecue Institute of America,
an industry group in Chicago.
Men (and women) all over the world seem to get a thrill out of
their grills. Here's a little heated history to fire you up for a
Father's Day grill session:
Barbecuing in the U.S. has many roots. Ponce de Leon, on his
cruise through the Caribbean, found Haitians cooking over fire. He
brought their techniques to America when he landed in the 1500s, in
what has become Florida, according to the institute. Other parts of
America doubtless picked up their outdoor cooking tips from Indian
tribes, who used foods indigenous to their regions.
Pigs and chickens commonly landed on the spit, according to
early English writers documenting New World cuisines. It wasn't
long before the Spanish and English were firing up the pits and
cooking with rotisseries, but using the deer, cattle and sheep of
their fields in place of pigs or chickens.
Other parts of the world, meanwhile, picked up different methods
of fire-cooking from neighbors in the Middle East, Asia and Africa,
where Egyptians, Mongolians and desert nomads routinely cooked on a
spit over coals. The meats varied according to culture and
availability lamb in Mongolia, chicken and pork in southern
China, beef and lamb around Egypt.
In parts of China and Southeast Asia today, cooking outdoors is
part of the culture, and communal cooking pits made of stone still
mark a village common. The people eat the same foods their
ancestors cooked over coals typically, beef, pork and chicken. In
southern India, Thailand and Vietnam, with miles of ocean
surrounding them, fish is skewered and charcoal-braised.
Typical of those ovens is the Indian tandoori, a wood-burning
oven that gives everything from chicken to some breads a
distinctive smoky flavor, plus a red tinge that comes from smoke
penetration. Spicy marinades help, too: Curry mixtures and rubs are
popular in this country as a pre-grill seasoning.
The Scandinavians and Russians smoke their indigenous fishes, as
do native Inuits and Indians along the Pacific Northwest. There,
planked salmon, deriving its flavor from both the wood of the plank
it's cooked on and the smoke, is a delicacy.
In Japan, the famous cash crop bonito, typically used for fish
stock, is available fresh once a year. At that time, the fish are
filleted and grilled quickly to sear the skin crisp, but keep the
flesh moist. It is then chilled and served with a marinade of soy,
ginger, honey and vinegar, according to Elizabeth Andoh, a noted
Japanese cookbook author.
From Greece and Spain come shish kebabs skewered meat grilled
over fire, but in small chunks. Kebab history is loosely traced to
the Medieval days of sword-toting warriors who frequently ate in
the field during their battles. A deer, pheasant or rabbit was
caught, divided among the camp, and roasted in pieces skewered on
their swords over the campfire.
Today's grill warriors prefer lamb, brushed with lemon juice and
seasoned with oregano in Greece; and beef and pork (and
occasionally lamb) in Spain and Portugal.
The Portuguese, however, prefer cooking over a spit, roasting
the meat slowly over the coals. Home cooks are equipped with
rotisseries, and specialty restaurants called churrasqueira offer
the roasts, according to Portuguese cookbook author Carla Azevedo.
A Portuguese delicacy, fresh sardines, get the grill treatment
after being sprinkled with coarse salt. They're served as a tapas,
with a rosemary, garlic and lemon oil dip.
The big steak eaters are, naturally, citizens of countries that
raise beef as a primary meat source. The U.S., Argentina, Brazil
and Australia are beef grillers. Argentina takes specific pride in
its cattle, and huge stone grills for barbecuing are common on the
gaucho ranches.
And as for Americans? The Barbecue Institute says steak, of
course, but burgers, ribs and chicken are tops with pops (and moms)
doing the grill thing.
Here are recipes to share with your dad for a Father's Day
cookout. Many of the sauces, marinades and techniques are
interchangeable; experiment to your liking. Indonesian satay
Cut meat into 1-inch cubes. In a bowl, combine garlic, soy, oil,
cumin, and coriander. Add meat and stir to coat; cover and
refrigerate for 2 hours or overnight. Stir occasionally.
Lift meat from marinade and drain briefly (discard marinade).
Thread 4 or 5 pieces of meat on each skewer. Arrange skewers on a
lightly greased grill 2 to 4 inches above a solid bed of hot coals.
Cook, turning often, until well browned and done to your liking.
Cut to test (8 to 10 minutes for medium-rare.)
Combine water, peanut butter and garlic, minced, in a 2-quart
saucepan. Cook over medium-low heat until mixture boils and
thickens. Remove from heat; stir in remaining ingredients. Serve
hot.
Choose a slender filet mignon or piece of London broil that's no
thicker than 1 1/4 inches. Make several shallow slits in all the
surfaces of the meat and insert slivers of garlic into them. Brush
the meat with a thin layer of oil, then salt and pepper both sides.
Sear meat over hot coals. Turn it once after 5 minutes or when
well browned. Sear other side; if filet is rounded, you may need to
turn it 1/4-turn each time. The meat should be rare, though not
raw, inside.
Remove meat from the grill and plunge it into ice water. Gently
lift the meat out of the water, leaving any fat behind. Pat meat
dry on several layers of paper toweling.
In a glass or ceramic container large enough to accommodate
meat, combine marinade ingredients. Stir well to distribute. Let
meat sit in marinade, covered, in refrigerator overnight. If
marinade doesn't completely cover steak, turn meat several times to
ensure even flavoring.
Note: The ingredients for this dish can be found in any market
that carries Middle Eastern products. The asafoetida also may be
called hing.
In a bowl to hold all chops, marinate the lamb chops in the
paste for 1 hour.
Over a medium charcoal grill, grill the chops for 5 minutes on
each side. Serve warm with sliced cucumbers, tomatoes and
scallions. Naan bread is often served with this dish as well.
Note: The ingredients for this dish can be found in any market
that carries Middle Eastern products. The asafoetida also may be
called hing.
Clean whole fish well, including head and tail. Skewer fish from
mouth to tail with metal or bamboo rod. (Bamboo is traditional.)
At least 1 hour and up to 8 hours before you grill, prepare the
dry rub, combining all rub ingredients. Coat chicken breasts evenly
with the rub, place in a plastic bag, and refrigerate.
Just before grilling, spritz the chicken with vegetable oil.
Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes per side,
until opaque, but still juicy.
At least 2 1/2 hours before grilling (or overnight), mix mojo
ingredients in a small bowl. Place the tenderloins in a plastic bag
and about 2/3 of the mojo over them. Cover and refrigerate the pork
and the remaining mojo.
Remove pork from refrigerator; drain and blot. Let pork sit,
covered, at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes.
Heat grill for a two-level fire capable of cooking first on high
heat (1 to 2 seconds with hand-held-over-flame test) and then on
medium heat (4 to 5 seconds with hand test).
Transfer tenderloins to the grill, arranging them so that thick
end is over hottest part of fire. Grill, uncovered on high heat,
for 3 minutes, rolling pork on all sides. Move the pork to medium
heat, continue turning and complete grilling as indicated:
Thin tenderloins (about 1 1/2 inches in diameter) need an
additional 10 to 12 minutes on medium and thick ones (about 2 1/2
inches in diameter) require up to 25 minutes. The meat is done when
the internal temperature reaches 155 degrees to 160 degrees.
WACO, Texas When blond-haired, blue-eyed Grand Dragon Michael
Lowe, backed by several dozen of his Texas Knights of the Ku Klux
Klan followers, shows up in the strife-torn East Texas community of
Jasper with a message of peace and harmony, don't believe it.
It would be best if no one showed up at the June 27 KKK rally on
Jasper's courthouse steps because Grand Dragon Lowe is the Klan's
Lowe is a successful recruiter for the Klan because he keeps the
hoods and sheets in the closet and preaches a message that could
substitute for the political platform of many current politicians.
Like the rest of America, Lowe's attention must have riveted on
the small timber community of Jasper following reports that three
white men chained the feet of Jasper native James Byrd Jr. to the
trailer hitch of a beat-up old pickup and dragged the 49-year-old
African-American down country roads until his body was torn to
pieces.
The three white ex-cons arrested for the murder were reported to
have links to racist prison gangs. Add racial hatred as the
apparent motive for the ghastly crime and Lowe must have felt the
thrill of a once-in-a lifetime opportunity.
When Lowe isn't busy putting a mainstream happy face on the
Klan, he works as a carpenter in the Waco area. He grew up and
still lives in nearby Robinson where high school classmates
remember him as a misfit who had a well-developed hatred for blacks
at an early age.
A chilling peek into Lowe's young psyche that reverberates with
the Jasper murder was reported in an Aug. 14, 1994, Tribune-Herald
article about Lowe by staff writer Teresa Talerico.
Lowe erupted when a black student was nominated as class
favorite, according to a classmate who graduated with Lowe in 1968.
Lowe has claimed that he joined a Klan faction, United Klans of
America, at 16. After high school, Lowe was convicted twice for
burglary
In 1973, Lowe also received 10 years probation for possession of
an explosive device involving a series of bombings in Houston of a
He doesn't hide from public view. He seeks publicity. When
opportunities arise, he calls a rally so he can tell everyone that
the Klan does not hate or advocate violence.
Lowe talks about white civil rights. He talks about mainstream
values. He talks about family farms to farmers. He talks about
problems with immigrants. He talks about problems with the welfare
system. He talks about the right to choose.
Americans aren't the only ones who get fired up about grilling.
Here's a look at barbecuing in different countries.
Portugal, Spain and France: Rotisserie-cooked roasts, primarily
beef and lamb, with basting sauces flavored with wine, garlic and
fresh herbs.
ATLANTA At the request of Alabama's governor and congressional
delegation, a White House committee has backed off from
recommending President Clinton designate the Chattahoochee as an
American Heritage River.
The move by Alabama angered Georgia officials, and might
escalate an already bitter water war between the states. Georgia
officials, including Gov. Zell Miller, pushed for the designation,
which would pave the way for federal funds and programs to help
clean up, protect and maintain the environmental integrity of the
Chattahoochee.
Clinton is expected to name 10 waterways this month as American
Heritage Rivers under a program he created last year to bring
national attention to the importance of the nation's rivers. The 10
will be the first to be designated American Heritage Rivers.
In a letter to the White House's Council on Environmental
Quality, Alabama Gov. Fob James and members of the state's
congressional delegation claimed that giving the Chattahoochee that
designation could upset negotiations among Alabama, Florida and
Georgia to settle an interstate water war.
She said the Chattahoochee appeared headed for inclusion on the
list of 10 waterways the council will recommend to Clinton. More
than 125 communities around the country nominated rivers for the
program. But at a meeting Tuesday in St. Louis, council officials
told Champion that the Chattahoochee would not be recommended.
Champion said more than 3,500 residents and elected officials in
Georgia and Alabama, and 21 cities and counties had signed letters
supporting the Chattahoochee's designation.
WEST PALM BEACH Residents of one of the city's poorest
neighborhoods were blessed with thousands of sports and outdoor
shoes recently after looters raided a tractor-trailer filled with 5
tons of name brands parked a block off Tamarind Avenue.
An anonymous caller later told police that drug dealers broke
into the 18-wheeler first, followed by others who wanted new men's
shoes by Rockport, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Timberland and Nautica.
Two cars collided on 13th Street trying to reach the scene,
Woods said. About 40 people were inside the trailer when police
arrived.
Police retrieved about one-third of the shoes nearly 1,700
pairs which were strewn on the street or still in the trailer
when they arrived. Some of the looters had left old shoes where
they'd sat down to try on their new shoes, Woods said.
John Fayard, the wayward trucker's boss in Gulfport, Miss.,
declined comment Thursday, except to say his insurance will pay for
the shoes.
Only Edward Robinson, the loss prevention director at the
Mississippi salvage yard where the shoes were to be delivered for
reshipment, called the police giveaway an outrage.
There is probably no more ubiquitous woodworking hand tool than
the Blue Chip chisels made by the British firm of Marples. I've got
a set, you've probably got a set. They're everywhere.
They're cheap and they're available. Thus it was interesting to
see this query, and the response it brought, on the Internet:
The overwhelming consensus was that the fellow should go ahead
and get them. Actually, $49.95 is pretty high for a set of Blue
Chips, but I gather this one comes boxed. I'd forgo the box and buy
them cheaper. I can't remember what I paid for mine, but it was
closer to half that price. Of course, that was a long time ago.
Some responders even suggested that anybody who would turn up
his nose at Blue Chip chisels is nothing but a snob.
I would say get the Blue Chips for a couple of reasons: First,
this gentleman is obviously a beginner and they're most adequate
for starters. Second, I know of no other moderately priced set
which includes the invaluable 1/8-inch chisel. And finally, I'd as
soon have the Marples as the Sorby. I don't know how much
difference in price there is between the sets, but I doubt if
there's much difference in quality.
But I wouldn't suggest that anyone who wants a better set is a
snob. He's simply moved to another level of the craft.
I recall some years back Fine Woodworking did one of its rare
(for the time) reviews of tools, and in this case analyzed the
steel in various brands of chisels. The Blue Chips came in last by
a long way. They'll take a fine edge, but they won't necessarily
hold it very long.
There are, generally speaking, no finer chisels than those made
in Japan, although one needs to be careful to buy from a reputable
dealer who will sell a set made for export. Japanese chisels are
made of laminated steel; a thin layer of hard steel on the back for
the edge, with a thicker layer of milder steel to back it up.
In Japan, most woodworkers use soft woods, and thus can use
extremely hard steel. But in this country, where furniture making
nearly always involves hardwoods, such an edge will tend to chip
very easily.
Japanese chisels range from moderately priced to incredibly
expensive. The more expensive ones tend to be works of art rather
than practical tools. A $10 chisel may not hold an edge as long as
I'd like, but a $100 one makes me nervous.
The Record plane is in the same category as the Marples chisels
-- it's hard to find anything else, and even harder to find
anything better. The soles of Record planes are never, in my
experience, flat or square to the sides, and the irons are of
indifferent quality. If you're willing to put in a considerable
degree of scutwork, you can deal with this.
Basically, you'll have to flatten the soles by hand, which means
rubbing them on wet silicon carbide powder or paper on an
absolutely flat surface, usually heavy glass. The soles don't have
to be totally flat, but the leading edge, the surfaces just fore
and aft of the iron, and the tail end should all be on exactly the
same plane. The rest of the surface can be a little lower.
Replacing the iron only takes money. The Japanese make excellent
irons to fit the Record planes, and so does the small American
maker Hock. You can also improve them considerably by getting all
the slop out of the adjustment screw, but you'll need a better
expert than myself to explain that.
Incidentally, the Marples chisels will need similar work. The
back (edge side) of the chisel is just like the sole of a plane; it
has to be flat and square to the sides. The Marples tools won't be.
Once again, silicon carbide powder and water on a piece of heavy,
flat glass are called for.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,
mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open by
denying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed pool
that is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite for
Central Texans. In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judge
took literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,
ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inch
salamander, which lives only in the local springs. (Copelin, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.
NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; Selective
Service registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in a
game; hurricane names; and more. Gleaned from the week's news Q A. (Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially next
week, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read. We
wanted more than just a collection of recipes. (Heller, Dayton
Daily News) MOVED.
BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearby
Dusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is the
least familiar of German styles in the United States. It's a
different kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light as
a sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical
7-ounce glass with no ornamentation. (Skube, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swap
looking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook and
manual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948. Luckily, there
were a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyer
mixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe. And
readers Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reported
their mixers were still working. (Recipe follows.) (Walker, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED. EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.
GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline the
entertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28
in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, who
was invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,
will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site of
the festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18. EMBARGOED FOR
6/18.
YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled bar
to bar at night. This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City. Ybor
City draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife. Nightclubs are
shoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, like
cheapskates at an open bar. That wasn't the case about 20 years ago
when Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-night
neighborhood. (Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up in
Ybor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a
1-mile walking tour a lively excursion. A volunteer guide, she'll
tell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla. This small town built next to the Gulf
of Mexico gives contradictory first impressions. You see a
Victorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas and
picket fences. But on closer inspection it looks like a movie set
too perfect to be a real town. In fact, Seaside, which was the
location for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, is
not historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage. (Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla. So what do people do
in this Architectural Digest-perfect town? One would think the Gulf
of Mexico would be the main attraction. No, indeed. Houses are what
draw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,
who come here to admire and photograph the real estate. (Blackerby,
Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla. I'm on the Suwannee. The
houseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the river
immortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfect
place to remember old daydreams. Our cruise begins at Miller's
Marina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into the
gulf on Florida's West Coast. The lower area of the river is a
national wildlife refuge. (Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet,
tuisite to watch. Her Kate become not only the agent but the victim
of her own scheming. Grade: A - (Murray, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.
MODERNDESIGNS HIGH POINT, N.C. Modern designs, with clean,
simple lines, lighter woods and streamlined shapes, are headed to
furniture showrooms this fall. Among the designers leading the way
is Larry Laslo, one of the country's top creators of contemporary
furnishings, who introduced The Moderne Collection a
French-influenced Deco/Cubist/Modernist line for Bexley Heath
Ltd. at the spring High Point show. (Flanders, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.
RELIGION-BLACKARTS Celebrating its 10th anniversary this year,
the National Black Arts Festival (July 10-19) has become one of the
foremost events of its kind. An event this large has substantial
volunteer needs, from ushers and office help to people to greet
artists at the airport and help them around Atlanta. (Henry,
Atlanta Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.
These columns for release the weekend of Saturday, June 20,
1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times News
Service.
All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category. If you
have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox News
Service, at 404-526-5456.
YOUNG-COLUMN WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop
pretending I was somebody else and start being like Mike, which is
bald. I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in the
mirror, I lean my head just so. Then from far-off points I comb the
morning strands in a left-to-right swipe. It is their commute to
work. (Young, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.
NETHAWAY-COLUMN Klan Grand Dragon Michael Lowe talks about
white civil rights. He talks about mainstream values. He talks
about family farms to farmers. He talks about problems with
immigrants. He talks about problems with the welfare system. He
talks about the right to choose. But don't believe it. (Nethaway,
Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.
KABAT-COLUMN A sense of ownership be it a program at church,
a product on the shelf or a marketing plan translates into the
difference between participating in something and caring deeply
about it.
It reminds me of the old joke about the ham-and-egg breakfast.
In producing it, the joke goes, the chicken is involved, but the
pig is committed. (Kabat, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.
MINTER-COLUMN ATLANTA For the fifth June in a row, in
company of the sailing half of our family, we are headed for a
week's sail and crab-cake tour of the Chesapeake Bay. En route to
Baltimore we enjoy a traditional Delta breakfast -- two small
cookies and coffee. (Minter, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
These feature stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,
June 20, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times
News Service.
Stories are moving in the category they're listed under. Stories
moving to duplicate categories are marked. All stories have moved
except those with an ETA.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
DONATE-SHOES WEST PALM BEACH Residents of one of the city's
poorest neighborhoods were blessed with thousands of sports and
outdoor shoes recently after looters raided a tractor-trailer
filled with 5 tons of name brands parked a block off Tamarind
Avenue. (Pallesen, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
CHATTAHOOCHEE-DENIED ATLANTA At the request of Alabama's
governor and congressional delegation, a White House committee has
backed off from recommending President Clinton designate the
Chattahoochee as an American Heritage River. (Seabrook, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
WARNER-ON-WOOD There is probably no more ubiquitous
woodworking hand tool than the Blue Chip chisels made by the
British firm of Marples. I've got a set, you've probably got a set.
They're everywhere. (Warner, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.
BBQ American kids may think their dads invented barbecue. But
that's not exactly how the story goes. Roasting food over fire is
the oldest form of cooking in the world; picture the caveman
licking his fingers after a satisfying cookout. Nowadays, it's as
popular as ever, especially in the United States, where more than
75 percent of households own a grill. (Recipes for BBQ follow.)
(Norris, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
BBQ-SIDE Americans aren't the only ones who get fired up about
grilling. Here's a look at barbecuing in different countries. (List
follows.) (Norris, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
AUDIO-LATIFAH The verdict: More RB with rapper Queen Latifah
up front. Her voice and pen are still strong enough to prop up weak
melodies. (Murray, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.
VIDEO-DOVE Bonham Carter (once little more than a pretty face,
now a real actor) is exquisite to watch. Her Kate become not only
the agent but the victim of her own scheming. Grade: A - (Murray,
Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.
MODERNDESIGNS HIGH POINT, N.C. Modern designs, with clean,
simple lines, lighter woods and streamlined shapes, are headed to
furniture showrooms this fall. Among the designers leading the way
is Larry Laslo, one of the country's top creators of contemporary
furnishings, who introduced The Moderne Collection a
French-influenced Deco/Cubist/Modernist line for Bexley Heath
Ltd. at the spring High Point show. (Flanders, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.
RELIGION-BLACKARTS Celebrating its 10th anniversary this year,
the National Black Arts Festival (July 10-19) has become one of the
foremost events of its kind. An event this large has substantial
volunteer needs, from ushers and office help to people to greet
artists at the airport and help them around Atlanta. (Henry,
Atlanta Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.
ALBANY, N.Y. One of the darkest fears I hear expressed by the
50 or so people who call me every day is that the poor are ripping
them off.
Well, it's true that one New Yorker in 18 collects welfare. It's
also true that the overwhelming majority of those welfare
recipients are children people who can't yet work and would
starve in the streets if they weren't provided for them. But I can
understand resentment against able-bodied adults who are on the
dole.
Oh, you think that doesn't happen? Then you should know that
about two years ago, just before Congress passed welfare reform,
the inspector general of the Social Security Administration looked
into how many inmates nationwide were illegally receiving Social
Security benefits, mostly disability payments.
His estimate? About 60,000 jail and prison inmates were
continuing to collect that money even though they were in the
slammer and no longer eligible. How much money are we talking
about? Oh, only about $500 million a year.
How can a thing like this happen? Well, when the inmates go into
the slammer some of them somehow neglect to mention to anybody in
authority that they're collecting. OK, so that's fraud. So, what's
anybody going to do to them put them behind bars?
The Empire State has about 7 percent of the country's
population. That meant that, all factors being equal, about 4,200
New York jail and prison inmates probably were collecting illegal
Social Security benefits.
And, when you talk about New York as opposed to the rest of
America, nothing is ever equal. New York is Ripoff Central, USA.
New Yorkers probably had more than their share of incarcerated
Social Security cheats.
What Washington did to deal with this was to come up with a
bounty system to encourage state prison systems and local jails to
find Social Security cheats. Find a cheat and we'll give you money,
Washington said.
So now the New York state prison system is assiduous about
trying to catch Social Security cheats. The state averages about
five grand a month in bounty money from the feds. Local jails are
also trying to crack down. Last year, for example, the Saratoga
County jail in suburban Albany, which has maybe 190 inmates at any
given moment, found 11 Social Security cheats and collected $4,400
in bounty money from the feds. So far this year, Saratoga County
has nailed another four and collected about $2,800 in bounties. The
jail in Rensselaer County, another Albany suburb with about 265
inmates at any given moment, caught four guys just in the past
month.
But no such bounty program exists for state-delivered benefits
like welfare. And people who go to jail are more likely to be
receiving welfare benefits than the general population.
Three years ago, the administration of Gov. George Pataki began
comparing state and local inmate lists with welfare lists. Since
then, the computer runs have nailed about 2,500 inmates a year and
saved about 12 million bucks annually. But, given the Social
Security Administration figures, that number strikes me as a bit
low.
So, here's my suggestion: The Pataki administration not to
mention the administrations of other states around the country should offer the state prison system and the local jails the same
sort of bounties for jailed welfare cheats that the feds are
offering for jailed Social Security cheats. The worst that can
happen is that jailers won't catch any extra cheaters.
Need I say Woods? Need I say the most famous sports hero in the
world, even for those who don't quite consider golf a sport?
The only break you get from hearing his name is when the
marshals hush the crowd before a shot, and thank God for that bit
of etiquette.
Etiquette crumbles somewhat when the Tiger stampede starts. When
it's coming at you, you know how Custer felt when he saw the Sioux
nation coming.
Except this nation comes in all races, ages and color of polo
shirts, and you don't die, except maybe of boredom. This is golf,
after all.
It starts with the tiny figure of Tiger Woods swinging a club
far in the distance. Before the ball finishes rolling 290 yards
toward you, the horde of uncountable thousands is coming your way
along the sidelines.
Tiger Nation isn't quite what you'd think it is. Most Tiger
stalkers were like most golfers older white guys who'd look right
in a Lexus. Tiger is a golf phenom, not an ethnic phenom.
Sure, there were a lot of young people. At 6:30 a.m. high school
students Nancy Luu and Jason Cunningham already had staked out
seats in the top row of the bleachers at the 18th hole.
The complexion of the crowd at the U.S. Open had changed quite a
bit since the last time it was at the Olympic Club in 1987. There
were hundreds of African Americans, Asian Americans and Asians.
Shinichi and Chikako Saito came all the way from Osaka, Japan, to
watch the tournament in their new Stanford University sweat shirts,
and yes, watch Stanford's most famous alumnus.
I saw a teen-ager in a Tupac Shakur T-shirt and baggy pants,
which led to the most interesting clothing clash on the course all
day.
Two girls his age walked by, looked at his Tupac shirt and
giggled. They were wearing Bermudas and blouses in Muffy-Buffy
plaids. Hey, who's wearing the funny clothes here?
Tiger unites all, though. As he approached the 14th hole, the
kid in the Tupac shirt began chatting with an older man in a blue
blazer and Panama hat.
John Daly, what a guy. He looks like John Candy's younger,
meaner brother. He hits long, lives large and is my kind of
athletic role model. A Kaiser roll model.
I was waiting along the first fairway for Tiger when Daly's ball
landed nearby. He leaned on his club and lit up a ciggy. When it
was time to hit, he crushed it on the fairway. His caddy picked up
the butt.
Those are the kinds of details you see watching golf in person
that you'll never see on television.
Oh, the power of this sport. The player in question put his
glove back on, leading to follow-up glove analysis.
Some advice if you're going on safari with Tiger this weekend.
Just do it briefly. It's great to see him up close, but you only
see parts of him between heads, under visors and around carefully
bobbed hair.
There has to be more to watching golf than that. Don't ask me. I
only saw Tiger once close up, and never did see him sink a putt. I
assume he did.
Need I say Woods? Need I say the most famous sports hero in the
world, even for those who don't quite consider golf a sport?
The only break you get from hearing his name is when the
marshals hush the crowd before a shot, and thank God for that bit
of etiquette.
Etiquette crumbles somewhat when the Tiger stampede starts. When
it's coming at you, you know how Custer felt when he saw the Sioux
nation coming.
Except this nation comes in all races, ages and color of polo
shirts, and you don't die, except maybe of boredom. This is golf,
after all.
It starts with the tiny figure of Tiger Woods swinging a club
far in the distance. Before the ball finishes rolling 290 yards
toward you, the horde of uncountable thousands is coming your way
along the sidelines.
Tiger Nation isn't quite what you'd think it is. Most Tiger
stalkers were like most golfers older white guys who'd look right
in a Lexus. Tiger is a golf phenom, not an ethnic phenom.
Sure, there were a lot of young people. At 6:30 a.m. high school
students Nancy Luu and Jason Cunningham already had staked out
seats in the top row of the bleachers at the 18th hole.
The complexion of the crowd at the U.S. Open had changed quite a
bit since the last time it was at the Olympic Club in 1987. There
were hundreds of African Americans, Asian Americans and Asians.
Shinichi and Chikako Saito came all the way from Osaka, Japan, to
watch the tournament in their new Stanford University sweat shirts,
and yes, watch Stanford's most famous alumnus.
I saw a teen-ager in a Tupac Shakur T-shirt and baggy pants,
which led to the most interesting clothing clash on the course all
day.
Two girls his age walked by, looked at his Tupac shirt and
giggled. They were wearing Bermudas and blouses in Muffy-Buffy
plaids. Hey, who's wearing the funny clothes here?
Tiger unites all, though. As he approached the 14th hole, the
kid in the Tupac shirt began chatting with an older man in a blue
blazer and Panama hat.
John Daly, what a guy. He looks like John Candy's younger,
meaner brother. He hits long, lives large and is my kind of
athletic role model. A Kaiser roll model.
I was waiting along the first fairway for Tiger when Daly's ball
landed nearby. He leaned on his club and lit up a ciggy. When it
was time to hit, he crushed it on the fairway. His caddy picked up
the butt.
Those are the kinds of details you see watching golf in person
that you'll never see on television.
Oh, the power of this sport. The player in question put his
glove back on, leading to follow-up glove analysis.
Some advice if you're going on safari with Tiger this weekend.
Just do it briefly. It's great to see him up close, but you only
see parts of him between heads, under visors and around carefully
bobbed hair.
There has to be more to watching golf than that. Don't ask me. I
only saw Tiger once close up, and never did see him sink a putt. I
assume he did.
DEAR DR. BOMBAY: In a recent conversation with tech support, I
discovered new laws of physics. The dilemma was over whether a
CD-ROM drive was broken or whether a game was at fault. The tech
support person told me that since the back of my CD was
gold-colored, that was the problem. He said it was not
industry-standard silver. I accepted this politely even though I
knew it was a lie.
DEAR PEEVED: Now that's what's wrong with the relationship
between the computer industry and consumers. You were willing to
just roll over and accept any load of fertilizer they handed you.
To clear things up, it doesn't matter that your CD was gold. The
little laser thingie that shines on its surface is looking for
microscopic holes in the reflective surface, and it could care less
about colors. Take a look at a recordable CD. Guess what color it
is.
DEAR DR. BOMBAY: Is there any way somebody can find out that I
trade adult pictures with people I meet on America Online?
DEAR DR. BOMBAY: What does one do with old CD-ROM programs? I'd
hate to just trash them.
DEAR NOT: Well, they're not aerodynamic enough to make decent
Frisbees. They're lousy as coasters. You can only make so many
cutesy clock faces out of them. Maybe hang them in the trees to
scare off squirrels? Find a used software shop and try to make a
few bucks? Give them to a school or church or charity and take a
nice tax deduction? Listen, you tell me what to do with them. I've
got a closet full of the things. But then, I plan to use them as
currency after the coming revolution puts the world in my evil
clutches. I guess I shouldn't have tipped you off about that.
(Noted computerologist Dr. Emilio Bombay offers occasionally
accurate advice about most things electronic. He can be reached on
Internet at drbombay(at)star-telegram.com; via snail-mail at Fort
Worth Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth 76101; or fax: (817)
390-7257. His real name is Michael Gerst, editorial systems manager
for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Visit the Star-Telegram's online
services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) 
WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I was
somebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.
I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in the
mirror, I lean my head just so. Then from far-off points I comb the
morning strands in a left-to-right swipe. It is their commute to
work.
I realized the futility of this exercise the morning after
Michael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging his
neck like superfluous follicles.
I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, the
epitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing on
his head but Air.
And look at heads around the league, and look at the leagues
below, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.
There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,
which has less and less suit every year.
And we're not just talking about black guys. During the playoffs
the Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coach
Larry Bird look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.
Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.
Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits would
have caused it to lose its skin. But if that guy can parade lobar
nudity with pride, so can the rest of us. The fact is, we know we
can because Mike does.
Yes, this is about Michael Jordan. Just ask NBC. He's next to
God and bigger than the Beatles.
As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economic
hardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off the
little man. In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber into
the income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.
That's why I'm the one next to make a mint. I've applied for a
patent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to lose
it. Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,
Nogaine, is a winner.
The baldness-causing agent? That's secret, of course. Generally,
I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in the
blood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team. Now
you can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without his
blood pressure.
In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not his
jump shot. Hey, you take what you can get.
We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impediment
to excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, all
those creams and combs. With Nogaine, fuss no more.
The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by the
forces of baldness over those of baldness remedies. Utah's Karl
Malone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine. Loser.
No I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only be
the first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on my modern
social developments.
That's why, with women already starting to recoil from
scientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busy
working on a pill to restore male impotence.
The book, first issued last year in hardcover, is built around
profiles of media moguls such as Murdoch, TCI's John Malone, Time
Warner's Ted Turner, Microsoft's Bill Gates and Viacom's Sumner
Redstone the toll-takers, construction bosses and salvage-truck
operators on the information superhighway.
Auletta's M.O. is to spend time in board rooms and corporate
jets with members of the billionaire boys' club, seeing them
up-close and personal and, he hopes, unrehearsed. In the process,
he tries to glean insights into how they do deals and where they're
likely to go next on the Infobahn.
Auletta says he realizes that top CEOs might give him access to
their meetings, meals and tete-a-tetes because they think they can
co-opt him for their own self-promoting purposes, but he thinks
it's worth taking the risk.
For example, Murdoch, the son of a relatively small-time
Australian newspaper proprietor, was snubbed at his exclusive
English boarding schools and made to feel the unworthy outsider as
a boy. Thus, while he is politically conservative, Murdoch sees
himself as anti-establishment and has a me-against-the-world
attitude. He is, in Auletta's opinion, driven as much by personal
animus as by political agendas.
Still, Auletta rakes Murdoch for taking the BBC World Service
off his Star TV satellite network in China because the Beijing
government thought the BBC was too critical of China. He also takes
Murdoch to task for publishing a flattering biography hagiography, actually of Beijing's late paramount leader, Deng
Xiaoping, written by Deng's daughter for Murdoch's HarperCollins.
WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I was
somebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.
I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in the
mirror, I lean my head just so. Then from far-off points I comb the
morning strands in a left-to-right swipe. It is their commute to
work.
I realized the futility of this exercise the morning after
Michael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging his
neck like superfluous follicles.
I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, the
epitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing on
his head but Air.
And look at heads around the league, and look at the leagues
below, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.
There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,
which has less and less suit every year.
And we're not just talking about black guys. During the playoffs
the Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coach
Larry Bird look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.
Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.
Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits would
have caused it to lose its skin. But if that guy can parade lobar
nudity with pride, so can the rest of us. The fact is, we know we
can because Mike does.
Yes, this is about Michael Jordan. Just ask NBC. He's next to
God and bigger than the Beatles.
As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economic
hardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off the
little man. In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber into
the income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.
That's why I'm the one next to make a mint. I've applied for a
patent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to lose
it. Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,
Nogaine, is a winner.
The baldness-causing agent? That's secret, of course. Generally,
I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in the
blood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team. Now
you can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without his
blood pressure.
In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not his
jump shot. Hey, you take what you can get.
We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impediment
to excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, all
those creams and combs. With Nogaine, fuss no more.
The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by the
forces of baldness over those of baldness remedies. Utah's Karl
Malone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine. Loser.
Now I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only be
the first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on by modern
social developments.
That's why, with women already starting to recoil from
scientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busy
working on a pill to restore male impotence.
Texas Baptists Committed is a Baptist moderates support group
that during the last decade has fended off efforts of conservatives
to take over the Texas convention in the way they've done at the
national level.
But while conservatives are in full control of the
Nashville-based Southern Baptist Convention, moderates, led by
Baylor University's moderates, control the independently governed
Baptist General Convention of Texas.
While continuing to support Southern Baptist missionaries and
many other efforts of the national denomination, Texas Baptists now
send a smaller percentage of state money to the national
denomination and are backing moderate-led seminaries and university
theological training as an alternative to conservative graduate
theological training.
The statement was added to the Baptist Faith and Message
Statement, a general statement of beliefs that must be signed by
all professors at the six seminaries supported by the national
denomination.
Elliff said the biblical teaching doesn't mean wives have to
knuckle under to husbands who mistreat them and their children.
Two-way U.S.-China trade amounted to $157.2 billion last year about eight percent of U.S. trade worldwide. White House officials
say about 120,000 American jobs are dependent on U.S. trade with
China, a nation of 1.2 billion with one of the fastest growing
economies in the world.
Clinton will emphasize the U.S. economic stakes in trade with
China during his 10-day, five-city visit to China that begins next
Wednesday, McCurry said.
Clinton's visit will be the first by an American president since
Chinese communist authorities cracked down on pro-democracy
demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989, leaving between 400 to
800 dead and hundreds more imprisoned.
McCurry noted America's deepening trade deficit with Asia due to
the inability of faltering Asian economies to import U.S. products
and the ever-cheaper prices of Asian goods in the United States.
Clinton renewed the status on June 3. Congress has 90 days to
vote to disapproval the renewal. The House is expected to take the
initial congressional action on Clinton's request after it returns
from the July 4 recess.
The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that the U.S. trade
deficit soared to $14.5 billion in April a new record for the
month.
Clinton, concerned about the plight of Asian economies, ordered
the purchase of Japanese yen earlier this week in an effort to stem
the declining value of the Japanese currency, a situation that
threatened to escalate the 10-month old Asian crisis.
PARIS On at least two counts, past experience does not
encourage optimism that America's intervention to prop up the
wilting Japanese yen will prove effective for long.
First, intervention in money markets has not generally worked,
and second, Japan in the past has repeatedly failed to live up to
its promises to straighten out its economic problems.
Japan's Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has pledged such steps,
declaring he will act speedily to stimulate his country's economy
and swiftly revamp the crippled banking system, with its pile of
bad loans, that has been a major factor in the crisis.
The British daily said the forces within Japan that have been
blocking genuine reforms are so powerful that Hashimoto might have
to resign if he tried to do what he has promised. The entrenched
bureaucracy that has long run Japan still appears reluctant to
change the methods that brought unprecedented post-World War II
prosperity but have now badly failed.
Japanese officials have been guilty of trying to cover up
aspects of the crisis, Ringet noted.
PARIS On at least two counts, past experience does not
encourage optimism that America's intervention to prop up the
wilting Japanese yen will prove effective for long.
First, intervention in money markets has not generally worked,
and second, Japan in the past has repeatedly failed to live up to
its promises to straighten out its economic problems.
Japan's Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has pledged such steps,
declaring he will act speedily to stimulate his country's economy
and swiftly revamp the crippled banking system, with its pile of
bad loans, that has been a major factor in the crisis.
The British daily said the forces within Japan that have been
blocking genuine reforms are so powerful that Hashimoto might have
to resign if he tried to do what he has promised. The entrenched
bureaucracy that has long run Japan still appears reluctant to
change the methods that brought unprecedented post-World War II
prosperity but have now badly failed.
Japanese officials have been guilty of trying to cover up
aspects of the crisis, Ringet noted.
For the first time since 1979 when Iranian students seized and
held American hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran for 444 days there is the possibility of improved U.S.-Iran relations.
President Khatami wants to promote civil society and the rule of
law. He wants to end Iran's isolation. He wants to improve the life
of the Iranian people. He is reaching out to Iran's neighbors and
he is reaching out to the United States.
By himself, Khatami won't be able to reverse two decades of
strident anti-Americanism. He is engaged in a fierce power struggle
inside Iran, which remains bitterly divided between hard-line
conservatives and reformers.
I believe we need to begin a policy of engagement with Iran. It
will not be easy and it will take time to produce results, but I am
persuaded that such a policy serves the American national interest.
The United States should use several avenues for outreach to
Iran and its people. Just as President Khatami chose CNN to send
his message to the United States, President Clinton or a senior
U.S. official can talk directly to the Iranian people through
interviews on Iranian radio and TV, or on the Persian service of
Voice of America.
The United States is concerned about Iran's attitude toward the
Middle East peace process. But we should not simply say Iran is
totally opposed to the peace process. We are deeply concerned about
Iran's support for international terrorism. Yet as Khatami knows,
Iran too has paid a price for terrorism. It has paid in isolation
from Europe, deep suspicion from its neighbors and sanctions from
the United States.
 Is Iran imposing constraints on the military activities of
groups it has supported? Hezbollah in Lebanon has talked about
pulling back from the border with Israel if Israel withdraws from
Lebanon. We should test the Iranians' willingness to change words
into deeds.
 Have military shipments through the Damascus Airport
diminished? It may be too early to get definitive answers, but we
should be communicating to Iran specific, doable achievable steps
that we want it to accomplish, on the way toward cutting off all
support for political violence.
 Is the declaratory policy of the Organization of Islamic
Conference, which condemned terrorism by all member states, holding
and being honored by Iran, the OIC's chairman for the next three
years?
The United States should send a USIA officer to the Swiss
Embassy, to initiate and coordinate exchange programs with Iran.
Former policymakers, professors, journalists, scientists, artists,
writers and representatives of non-profit organizations should meet
to discuss subjects of mutual interest. These will help break down
prejudices and misconceptions.
In addition, the United States should change its visa policies
for Iranians. We should end the current rules that collectively
punish Iranians through long delays for entire categories of visa
applicants. When a U.S. wrestling team traveled to Tehran in
February, they were treated respectfully by the Iranian government.
The United States reciprocated by treating Iranian wrestlers like
common criminals, delaying them for two hours at the airport so
they could be fingerprinted and photographed.
This was humiliating to them, insulting to Iran and directly
contrary to our interest in signaling a willingness to develop
better relations.
While we should take necessary precautions for security reasons
and for full observance of immigration laws, we should no longer
subject Iranians otherwise entitled to visas to long delays,
expenses and humiliation.
 (This commentary is adapted from a recent address by The
Honorable Lee H. Hamilton, member, U.S. House of Representatives,
before the Council on Foreign Relations, in Washington, D.C.) 
For the first time since 1979 when Iranian students seized and
held American hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran for 444 days there is the possibility of improved U.S.-Iran relations.
President Khatami wants to promote civil society and the rule of
law. He wants to end Iran's isolation. He wants to improve the life
of the Iranian people. He is reaching out to Iran's neighbors and
he is reaching out to the United States.
By himself, Khatami won't be able to reverse two decades of
strident anti-Americanism. He is engaged in a fierce power struggle
inside Iran, which remains bitterly divided between hard-line
conservatives and reformers.
I believe we need to begin a policy of engagement with Iran. It
will not be easy and it will take time to produce results, but I am
persuaded that such a policy serves the American national interest.
The United States should use several avenues for outreach to
Iran and its people. Just as President Khatami chose CNN to send
his message to the United States, President Clinton or a senior
U.S. official can talk directly to the Iranian people through
interviews on Iranian radio and TV, or on the Persian service of
Voice of America.
The United States is concerned about Iran's attitude toward the
Middle East peace process. But we should not simply say Iran is
totally opposed to the peace process. We are deeply concerned about
Iran's support for international terrorism. Yet as Khatami knows,
Iran too has paid a price for terrorism. It has paid in isolation
from Europe, deep suspicion from its neighbors and sanctions from
the United States.
 Is Iran imposing constraints on the military activities of
groups it has supported? Hezbollah in Lebanon has talked about
pulling back from the border with Israel if Israel withdraws from
Lebanon. We should test the Iranians' willingness to change words
into deeds.
 Have military shipments through the Damascus Airport
diminished? It may be too early to get definitive answers, but we
should be communicating to Iran specific, doable achievable steps
that we want it to accomplish, on the way toward cutting off all
support for political violence.
 Is the declaratory policy of the Organization of Islamic
Conference, which condemned terrorism by all member states, holding
and being honored by Iran, the OIC's chairman for the next three
years?
The United States should send a USIA officer to the Swiss
Embassy, to initiate and coordinate exchange programs with Iran.
Former policymakers, professors, journalists, scientists, artists,
writers and representatives of non-profit organizations should meet
to discuss subjects of mutual interest. These will help break down
prejudices and misconceptions.
In addition, the United States should change its visa policies
for Iranians. We should end the current rules that collectively
punish Iranians through long delays for entire categories of visa
applicants. When a U.S. wrestling team traveled to Tehran in
February, they were treated respectfully by the Iranian government.
The United States reciprocated by treating Iranian wrestlers like
common criminals, delaying them for two hours at the airport so
they could be fingerprinted and photographed.
This was humiliating to them, insulting to Iran and directly
contrary to our interest in signaling a willingness to develop
better relations.
While we should take necessary precautions for security reasons
and for full observance of immigration laws, we should no longer
subject Iranians otherwise entitled to visas to long delays,
expenses and humiliation.
 (This commentary is adapted from a recent address by The
Honorable Lee H. Hamilton, member, U.S. House of Representatives,
before the Council on Foreign Relations, in Washington, D.C.) 
Japan's economic performance in the 1990s continues to be
disappointing, frustrating and worrisome. Tokyo's economic
sluggishness is souring life at home and setting off international
reverberations.
Much of Japan's financial weakness is mirrored in other Asian
countries. More important, Japan's failure to deal with its
economic woes provides a hint of the resistance to reform that may
be expected elsewhere in the region.
Indeed, among bureaucrats and politicians there remains a strong
faith in the Japanese style of capitalism and a resistance to truly
liberating financial markets.
Nor is the Japanese public clamoring for deregulation. It
associates such reform with unemployment and instability in
personal lives but the Japanese have spent the past half-century
trying to reduce such uncertainty.
The problems of the 1990s were started by the bursting of the
real-estate and stock-market bubbles of the 1980s. The government
deserves much of the blame for the financial excesses and the
stagnation that has followed, but its dogmatically conservative
attitudes are delaying recovery.
The financial sector is swamped by a mind-boggling array of bad
debts and underfunded pension liabilities, amounting to as much as
$1.5 trillion. Scandal after scandal exposes unethical or illegal
behavior. And many of the policies being adopted to clean up this
mess will delay resolution of the bad debts and counterproductively
increase government control.
Despite the torrent of pronouncements from Tokyo about economic
stimulus and deregulation, the world will be disappointed with the
results. While some financial deregulation will occur, those who
believe that Japan will adopt an American economic model are
mistaken.
Japanese bureaucrats and politicians, including the elite at the
Ministry of Finance, continue to be in deep denial. They do not
comprehend the extent of reforms necessary to restore the nation to
economic health. Instead they regard their current problems as a
passing incident with no fundamental implications for the ongoing
overall system.
These problems harbor a variety of international ramifications.
The International Monetary Fund's bailout for Indonesia, Thailand
and South Korea includes substantial reform of their financial
systems.
Unfortunately, Japan will not be a firm supporter of this
initiative. Nor will Japan import many more goods and services as
Southeast Asia attempts to export its way out of trouble. Japan has
damaged its self-assumed role as a leader of Asia and will prove a
weak international partner for the United States.
Japan's present economic problems and reluctance to reform
follow an era of roughly 10 percent annual growth, which ended in
1973. After that, the economy grew at a more modest 4 percent until
the early 1990s. The Japanese slowdown has brought a gradual,
piecemeal unraveling of the postwar financial boom.
Eager for new business, large commercial banks moved into real
estate lending in the 1980s with the Ministry of Finance's explicit
support and guidance. Along with insurance companies and securities
firms, they invested aggressively overseas as regulatory
restrictions fell.
For the first time in decades, the banks were faced with
unfamiliar loan clients, but they continued to assume that the
Ministry of Finance would guarantee their viability. Their
recklessness fed the real-estate and stock-market speculation of
the late 1980s, which caused both urban real-estate and stock
prices nearly to triple in four years.
Furthermore, Japanese financial institutions' penchant for
making investments based on long-term personal or corporate
relationships had serious repercussions, especially when banks
sought new clients. Banks began financing new borrowers with the
same assumption that personal relationships would suffice as a
screening mechanism. The herd instincts of Japanese banks took the
place of hard-nosed financial analysis.
This explanation, however, puts the most charitable face on what
was happening behind the scenes in Japan in the 1980s. The scandals
that have emerged in the 1990s have revealed shocking examples of
indiscretion and malfeasance.
Favored investors at securities firms were given guaranteed
returns on their equity portfolios. Huge loans went to small
businesses for speculation in the stock market and real estate.
Large banks eagerly introduced crooked clients to subsidiary banks
or credit co-ops in order to keep questionable loans off their own
books while hoping to benefit from the business.
Financial institutions continued to pay off racketeers who
threatened to reveal negative information at annual shareholder
meetings. Ministry of Finance officials told banks when to expect
inspections, in exchange for lavish entertainment and other favors.
And there have been allegations that the Ministry of Finance
approved and recommended illegal schemes to hide financial
problems.
These scandals go far beyond isolated incidents. They suggest a
debilitating fear of disclosing bad news, illegal dealings between
financial institutions, politicians and bureaucrats, and the
involvement of organized crime.
Presumably much of this behavior took place earlier, but both
the need for new outlets for lending and the euphoria created by
the stock and real-estate bubbles drastically increased its
prevalence.
When the bubbles burst, the fallout included enormous bad debts,
the magnitude of which is still not known, mainly because of
Japan's loose requirements on reporting bad, or nonperforming,
loans. In late 1997, the Ministry of Finance admitted that problem
loans totaled some 79 trillion yen ($630 billion), about 15 percent
of all Japanese bank lending and an enormous 16 percent of the
gross domestic product. These levels of bad debt resemble those in
Indonesia or Thailand.
More bad news may be coming since Japanese banks hold roughly
one-third of international loans to South Korea, Thailand and
Indonesia. Officially, Japanese lending to Asian countries totals
some $125 billion, but it may be larger. An unknown portion of
these loans are bad, but if Japanese banks behaved with the same
imprudence as elsewhere, the prognosis is not good.
Overall, Japan's situation is not encouraging. An outright
financial collapse with many banks going belly-up is unlikely, if
only because of the lengths to which the government will go to
prevent it. But the more likely scenario Japan muddling along
with substandard growth and an unstable financial sector is
hardly more encouraging. Neither scenario is good for Japan, Asia
or the world.
Despite the seriousness of Japan's financial troubles, neither
Tokyo nor the public believes in the American economic model. And
Japan's reluctance to undertake reform may send conflicting signals
to other Asian nations as the crisis moves into its next stage.
This is all the more unfortunate since Japan is a leading member of
the IMF.
Furthermore, Japan's economic stagnation suggests that it will
do little to revive Asia's health. Asia's struggling economies will
try to recover by increasing their exports. As the world's
second-largest economy, Japan could play a helpful role by
absorbing a portion of those exports.
But here is the rub: Japan is following the same strategy as its
poorer Southeast Asian neighbors. Rather than absorbing more
imports, Japan will shift its burden through more exports to the
United States. Despite any rhetoric about a global partnership,
Tokyo is quite willing to let the United States underwrite the
Asian recovery.
The international ramifications of Japan's financial weakness
extend beyond economics. The Japanese are now absorbed by domestic
problems; they have little interest in the problems of the rest of
Asia. Japan was noticeably silent during the recent crisis over
Iraq, articulating only the request that any military action be
postponed until after the Nagano Winter Olympics.
In the midst of South Korea's economic crisis, Japan chose to
press a petty dispute over fishing rights. Just a few years ago,
Japan was awash in talk of playing a larger role in the world, and
the government mounted a modest campaign to become a permanent
member of the U.N. Security Council. Today there is little interest
expressed in international diplomacy.
Washington has found it difficult to exert pressure on Tokyo.
But it is time for the United States to send less-than-subtle
signals to Japan.
The relationship includes broad consulting arrangements, within
which American officials could simply stop providing advice.
Through canceled meetings, unreturned telephone calls and a lack of
advance notice of American policy moves, the United States can send
the message that it no longer regards Japan as a global partner.
This may seem like a heavy-handed way to treat the world's
second-largest economy, but under present circumstances it may be
the only way to move Japan off a path that is destructive for us
all.
 (Edward J. Lincoln is a Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies
at the Brookings Institution. This article is adapted from a longer
version in Foreign Affairs Magazine.) 
Japan's economic performance in the 1990s continues to be
disappointing, frustrating and worrisome. Tokyo's economic
sluggishness is souring life at home and setting off international
reverberations.
Much of Japan's financial weakness is mirrored in other Asian
countries. More important, Japan's failure to deal with its
economic woes provides a hint of the resistance to reform that may
be expected elsewhere in the region.
Indeed, among bureaucrats and politicians there remains a strong
faith in the Japanese style of capitalism and a resistance to truly
liberating financial markets.
Nor is the Japanese public clamoring for deregulation. It
associates such reform with unemployment and instability in
personal lives but the Japanese have spent the past half-century
trying to reduce such uncertainty.
The problems of the 1990s were started by the bursting of the
real-estate and stock-market bubbles of the 1980s. The government
deserves much of the blame for the financial excesses and the
stagnation that has followed, but its dogmatically conservative
attitudes are delaying recovery.
The financial sector is swamped by a mind-boggling array of bad
debts and underfunded pension liabilities, amounting to as much as
$1.5 trillion. Scandal after scandal exposes unethical or illegal
behavior. And many of the policies being adopted to clean up this
mess will delay resolution of the bad debts and counterproductively
increase government control.
Despite the torrent of pronouncements from Tokyo about economic
stimulus and deregulation, the world will be disappointed with the
results. While some financial deregulation will occur, those who
believe that Japan will adopt an American economic model are
mistaken.
Japanese bureaucrats and politicians, including the elite at the
Ministry of Finance, continue to be in deep denial. They do not
comprehend the extent of reforms necessary to restore the nation to
economic health. Instead they regard their current problems as a
passing incident with no fundamental implications for the ongoing
overall system.
These problems harbor a variety of international ramifications.
The International Monetary Fund's bailout for Indonesia, Thailand
and South Korea includes substantial reform of their financial
systems.
Unfortunately, Japan will not be a firm supporter of this
initiative. Nor will Japan import many more goods and services as
Southeast Asia attempts to export its way out of trouble. Japan has
damaged its self-assumed role as a leader of Asia and will prove a
weak international partner for the United States.
Japan's present economic problems and reluctance to reform
follow an era of roughly 10 percent annual growth, which ended in
1973. After that, the economy grew at a more modest 4 percent until
the early 1990s. The Japanese slowdown has brought a gradual,
piecemeal unraveling of the postwar financial boom.
Eager for new business, large commercial banks moved into real
estate lending in the 1980s with the Ministry of Finance's explicit
support and guidance. Along with insurance companies and securities
firms, they invested aggressively overseas as regulatory
restrictions fell.
For the first time in decades, the banks were faced with
unfamiliar loan clients, but they continued to assume that the
Ministry of Finance would guarantee their viability. Their
recklessness fed the real-estate and stock-market speculation of
the late 1980s, which caused both urban real-estate and stock
prices nearly to triple in four years.
Furthermore, Japanese financial institutions' penchant for
making investments based on long-term personal or corporate
relationships had serious repercussions, especially when banks
sought new clients. Banks began financing new borrowers with the
same assumption that personal relationships would suffice as a
screening mechanism. The herd instincts of Japanese banks took the
place of hard-nosed financial analysis.
This explanation, however, puts the most charitable face on what
was happening behind the scenes in Japan in the 1980s. The scandals
that have emerged in the 1990s have revealed shocking examples of
indiscretion and malfeasance.
Favored investors at securities firms were given guaranteed
returns on their equity portfolios. Huge loans went to small
businesses for speculation in the stock market and real estate.
Large banks eagerly introduced crooked clients to subsidiary banks
or credit co-ops in order to keep questionable loans off their own
books while hoping to benefit from the business.
Financial institutions continued to pay off racketeers who
threatened to reveal negative information at annual shareholder
meetings. Ministry of Finance officials told banks when to expect
inspections, in exchange for lavish entertainment and other favors.
And there have been allegations that the Ministry of Finance
approved and recommended illegal schemes to hide financial
problems.
These scandals go far beyond isolated incidents. They suggest a
debilitating fear of disclosing bad news, illegal dealings between
financial institutions, politicians and bureaucrats, and the
involvement of organized crime.
Presumably much of this behavior took place earlier, but both
the need for new outlets for lending and the euphoria created by
the stock and real-estate bubbles drastically increased its
prevalence.
When the bubbles burst, the fallout included enormous bad debts,
the magnitude of which is still not known, mainly because of
Japan's loose requirements on reporting bad, or nonperforming,
loans. In late 1997, the Ministry of Finance admitted that problem
loans totaled some 79 trillion yen ($630 billion), about 15 percent
of all Japanese bank lending and an enormous 16 percent of the
gross domestic product. These levels of bad debt resemble those in
Indonesia or Thailand.
More bad news may be coming since Japanese banks hold roughly
one-third of international loans to South Korea, Thailand and
Indonesia. Officially, Japanese lending to Asian countries totals
some $125 billion, but it may be larger. An unknown portion of
these loans are bad, but if Japanese banks behaved with the same
imprudence as elsewhere, the prognosis is not good.
Overall, Japan's situation is not encouraging. An outright
financial collapse with many banks going belly-up is unlikely, if
only because of the lengths to which the government will go to
prevent it. But the more likely scenario Japan muddling along
with substandard growth and an unstable financial sector is
hardly more encouraging. Neither scenario is good for Japan, Asia
or the world.
Despite the seriousness of Japan's financial troubles, neither
Tokyo nor the public believes in the American economic model. And
Japan's reluctance to undertake reform may send conflicting signals
to other Asian nations as the crisis moves into its next stage.
This is all the more unfortunate since Japan is a leading member of
the IMF.
Furthermore, Japan's economic stagnation suggests that it will
do little to revive Asia's health. Asia's struggling economies will
try to recover by increasing their exports. As the world's
second-largest economy, Japan could play a helpful role by
absorbing a portion of those exports.
But here is the rub: Japan is following the same strategy as its
poorer Southeast Asian neighbors. Rather than absorbing more
imports, Japan will shift its burden through more exports to the
United States. Despite any rhetoric about a global partnership,
Tokyo is quite willing to let the United States underwrite the
Asian recovery.
The international ramifications of Japan's financial weakness
extend beyond economics. The Japanese are now absorbed by domestic
problems; they have little interest in the problems of the rest of
Asia. Japan was noticeably silent during the recent crisis over
Iraq, articulating only the request that any military action be
postponed until after the Nagano Winter Olympics.
In the midst of South Korea's economic crisis, Japan chose to
press a petty dispute over fishing rights. Just a few years ago,
Japan was awash in talk of playing a larger role in the world, and
the government mounted a modest campaign to become a permanent
member of the U.N. Security Council. Today there is little interest
expressed in international diplomacy.
Washington has found it difficult to exert pressure on Tokyo.
But it is time for the United States to send less-than-subtle
signals to Japan.
The relationship includes broad consulting arrangements, within
which American officials could simply stop providing advice.
Through canceled meetings, unreturned telephone calls and a lack of
advance notice of American policy moves, the United States can send
the message that it no longer regards Japan as a global partner.
This may seem like a heavy-handed way to treat the world's
second-largest economy, but under present circumstances it may be
the only way to move Japan off a path that is destructive for us
all.
 (Edward J. Lincoln is a Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies
at the Brookings Institution. This article is adapted from a longer
version in Foreign Affairs Magazine.) 
Q. I am 26. My long-term goal is to retire very comfortably, and
my short-term goal is to purchase a home around age 30. I invest
$90 a week in my 401(k) account, and have a current balance of
$6,000 that is 60 percent invested in the George Putnam Fund of
Boston and 20 percent each in Putnam OTC and Emerging Growth and in
Fidelity Advisor Overseas. I also have $2,000 in a savings account,
and when it reaches $3,000 I plan to put it in Vanguard's Balanced
Index fund, adding $500 monthly. Am I on the right track to reach
my goals? How much will I have for my retirement years?
A. You are certainly on the right track and over the long term
you should do very well.
Still, you likely won't attain the retirement goal without
additional savings, and the purchase of your first house may be
closer to five years away than four.
Here's how I calculate. If you continue saving for retirement by
putting away $4,680 a year, you would amass $2,060,438 over 39
years, presuming average 10 percent annual growth. Invested to
produce an income stream (at a portfolio average 7 percent), you
could expect an income of $144,230 a year.
The trouble comes when you adjust for inflation. At 4 percent
average annual inflation, that $144,230 wilts down to the buying
power of $31,243 in today's money. If inflation averaged only 3
percent, the current value would be $45,541 still probably not
enough for a very comfortable lifestyle.
The good news is that you needn't fret. I suggest you calculate
the percentage of your current income that is going toward
retirement and then maintain that percentage during your working
years.
Thus, every time you get a raise, you bump your contributions to
the retirement pool. The result is that if your raises tend to
match or beat the inflation rate, you will thus be countering the
effect of inflation, and will indeed be very comfortably fixed in
retirement.
As for the house savings, I advise against moving to a mutual
fund, even an excellent one such as Vanguard Balanced Index. For
short-term savings, mutual funds are too aggressive; a market
downturn could take a serious bite out of your savings over the
short term.
I suggest you stick with money markets, CDs, US Treasury
securities, and the like for your home-purchase savings. If you
contribute $500 a month to this pool and achieve average annual
returns of 5 percent, over four years you would accumulate $28,883,
which is probably enough for a condo down payment; after five
years, you would have a more comfortable $36,464, which would widen
your purchase options and remember that the higher your down
payment is, the lower the interest rate you are likely to get on
the mortgage.
As for your 401(k) funds, it seems mostly solid, but I would
watch Putnam OTC and Emerging Growth fairly closely. After
excellent performance from 1992 to 1995, it fell to bottom-quartile
results the next two years. Its performance has improved this year,
but it is still running slightly behind the average for its mid-cap
growth peers.
If there are attractive alternatives in the small-cap or mid-cap
arena on your 401(k) menu, and if your fund doesn't soon return to
superior performance, I'd consider a change.
Q. I am 54, married, and looking for retirement advice. My
current retirement portfolio consists of a 401(k) plan that
contains $110,000 invested in Putnam Growth and Income and $107,000
in Putnam High Yield Advantage funds. Other assets include $124,000
in common stocks and $115,000 parked in a money market fund. I also
have a life insurance annuity that will pay out $80,000 in the year
2002. At retirement, besides Social Security payments estimated at
$1,400 a month, I will also have a small pension of $300 a month.
My goal is to have at least $60,000 annual income in retirement.
What do you recommend I do with the 401(k)? Other available funds
are Putnam's Voyager, OTC and Emerging Growth, and International.
Do we need more than the 401(k) savings to reach our goal?
With the $9,500 annual additions, the 401(k) should grow to
$669,881 over 11 years, presuming an average 8 percent annual
return. If we make the same assumption for your common stocks, that
segment of the portfolio would be worth $289,123 after 11 years.
If you simply let that $115,000 rot in a money fund and the
truth is I would not be a whole lot more aggressive it would add
up to $196,689.
Finally, if you were to invest the annuity payout that comes in
2002 in a good GNMA fund yielding 6.5 percent a year, you could
expect that to grow to $124,318 over the next seven years. That
takes us to a grand total of $1,280,011 a great deal more than
you will need to supply your expected needs.
As for investments, I'm going to presume your current portfolio
reflects a pretty conservative guy after all, you have about 55
percent of your savings in fixed-income holdings. As I said, I'm
not very positive about stocks at this point, so I won't argue.
But I would at least move the money market funds to Fidelity
Spartan GNMA or Vanguard GNMA. This should get you about a 1.5
percentage point better yield than a money market fund, and over 11
years the interest-rate bumps to which bond funds are prey should
balance themselves out.
Moreover, the difference between a 5 percent yield on $115,000
and a 6.5 percent yield on the same investment works out to $33,313 enough to give you some comfort even if things don't work as I
presume.
Finally, if you put this money (as well as annuity proceeds when
they arrive) in such a fund, by the time you retire the fixed
income side these funds plus the Putnam High Yield Advantage
account will have grown to a size sufficient to meet your
projected income needs.
You could thus leave the balance of the portfolio in equities to
protect you against the likely effects of inflation after
retirement.
Q. I have been building UTMA accounts for my children, aged 10
and 11, since 1991. Each account now is worth a little more than
$19,000, and each contains 400 shares of Vanguard Asset Allocation
fund, 220 shares of Janus Fund, and 135 shares of T. Rowe Price
Blue Chip Growth fund. I currently add $100 a month to each
account. I had always intended this to be the children's college
fund, but now I am considering tapping into these accounts,
beginning in 2001, to pay their tuition at a private high school.
This would cost a little more than $5,000 a year. I would continue
to save college money, but perhaps in my own name, since much has
been made of the decreased potential for financial aid when college
savings are in a child's name. Does this plan raise any red flags?
If it is sound, I think I should move out of an almost all-stock
portfolio into investments that will protect principal, but I don't
know what type of fund would be best. Obviously a money market fund
will protect principal, but I can stand a little more risk in the
short term. Should I make any changes all at once, or in phases?
A. The only substantial red flag I can see is that by spending
the lion's share of the educational savings on a private high
school, you will have relatively little accumulated for them by the
time they're ready for college. If you were to continue at your
$100 a month pace for each, but this time putting it in your own
name and paying any taxes the accounts accrued, you might have
$9,126 for the older child by the time of his or her freshman year,
and $11,099 for the younger at the same period. These projections
are based on an assumption of average annual returns of 8 percent,
and that might be optimistic since you correctly anticipate moving
these investments to more cautious vehicles as the time you will
require the funds draws closer.
So the first question is whether you can afford this course,
which entails either saving more now for the college years, coming
up with funds for college from other sources, or leaving the kids
largely to their wits when it comes college time -- i.e. hoping for
scholarships and grants to carry the bulk of the load. But just as
a point of reference, if you kept the current college savings pool
working until their freshman years, with the ongoing $100 monthly
contributions and average returns of 8 percent, the elder child
would have $39,279 at the beginning of the freshman year, and the
account for the younger would be $43,661.
Whatever you decide, it would indeed be wise to switch the
further savings into your own name. And if you go with the plan for
private secondary education, I agree that the portfolios would be
fairly sharply realigned. All three of your funds concentrate on
large- cap stocks (although Vanguard Asset Allocation has 40
percent of its portfolio in long-term bonds). If the funds are to
be used in the next six years, I'd suggest something like this:
retain 25 percent in Vanguard Asset Allocation and then divide the
balance between Vanguard High-Yield Corporate and Vanguard
Intermediate-Term U.S. Treasury funds.
Although the current $19,000 balances are probably more than
double the amount of your cash contributions, remember taxes have
been paid on distributions each year as the accounts grew, and the
amount of those reinvested distributions increases your base cost.
Whatever the tax bill comes out to, it's probably prudent to pay
it now and reduce the risk.
If you decide against a private high school, I would still
reduce the portfolio's risk, but not as dramatically -- probably
retaining the Asset Allocation position as is and move about half
the money in the all-stock funds into a high-yield bond fund.
Q. I graduated from college a year ago and will be 23 at the end
of next month. I want to get an early start on retirement planning.
I am involved in a family real estate development business and have
a good earning potential. I plan to set up a Keough plan next year.
If I were to put $10,000 or $15,000 into this plan every year, what
kind of a nest egg would I be looking at when I am both 43 and 53
years old? My thought is to go strictly with growth funds because
of my age. What strategy would you advise if I am able to save this
much cash?
A. A 20-year investment program with contributions of $833 a
month (or $10,000 a year) would grow to $589,942, assuming 10
percent average annual contributions; bump the monthly
contributions up to $1,250, or $15,000 a year, and the sum would be
$898,417.
But it's in the next decade that the cash really begins to pile
up, taking the kitty to $1,720,378 with the lower level of
contributions, and to $2,570,578 at the $15,000 annual level.
I agree that growth funds are the ticket for a fellow your age,
but you'll want to spread your bets among various sectors of the
market. In my example, I'll cite Fidelity funds, but you could
build a similar portfolio with most other major fund families.
I'd start with the dominant and boring end -- putting half of
the contributions into Fidelity Spartan Market Index fund, which
simply seeks to track the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. (If you
don't like the idea of an index fund, you might consider another
solid large-cap dominated fund such as Fidelity Growth and Income,
but I would go with the index.) Then I would add 20 percent in a
good small-cap fund, such as Fidelity Low-Priced Stock.
I would split the final 30 percent equally among an
international fund such as Fidelity Overseas, and two sector funds
-- Fidelity Select Health Care and Fidelity Select Technology. Both
of these latter funds are likely to provide bumpy rides at times,
but with your very long outlook, you can afford to ride them out.
Finally, ignore the markets. What you are doing is effectively
embarking on a twenty- or thirty-yeasr dollar-cost averaging
program, and what you want to do it stuff away the $833 or $1,250 a
month regardless of the state of the markets -- reasoning that
whatever price you pay now will look mighty attractive a decade or
two hence.
Simply refuse to allow yourself to get spooked if a market turns
sour and you find yourself moving backwards for a quarter, or even
a year or so. Also, be realistic in your projection of
contributions. You'd be far better off settling for the lower
figure and sticking to it doggedly than by aiming high, making the
payment this month, missing it next month, and reducing it the
third.
Q. Can you tell me the best way to go with a $1,000 gift I plan
to make to a granddaughter on her graduation?
A. If this is a high-school graduation and she plans to go on to
college, I simply suggest a check made out to the college, with
your granddaughter's name on the memo line of the check. But if
this is a college graduation, I have two suggestions.
Unless you have a particular use in mind for the money, why not
simply give it to her and let her determine what to do with it.
Typically a new college graduate has never been so broke in her
life.
But let's suppose you want this money to stay with your
granddaughter and become the seed from which her future financial
security grows. In that case I suggest this: Tell her that after
she has reached $1,000 in earned income, you will give her a check
made out to a mutual fund company which will represent the
beginning of her retirement savings. I would suggest a Roth IRA
invested in either Vanguard Index 500 fund or Fidelity Spartan
Market Index fund -- almost identical offerings which simply seek
to track the course of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. A modest
gift? Well, let's suppose she is 21 years old and leaves the money
there until she's 65. If the fund produces average annual returns
of 10 percent over those 44 years, the nestegg would be $66,264
when she is 65.
WASHINGTON In a significant tactical shift, President Clinton
will press his demands for the release of over a dozen Chinese
dissidents at next week's summit in China in closed meetings, not
in the media.
After years of wrangling publically with China over human
rights, the administration has decided to take a different approach
for the nine-day summit, which starts June 26. This stance is based
in part on the fact that China no longer holds dissidents who are
well-known outside of the country.
The change is also an admission that the old US policy did not
work. As celebrated dissidents were freed from prison, others were
put behind bars. Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright
will stress that Washington wants basic legal reforms in China, not
simply a trickle of prisoner releases in coming months.
Once they settled in the United States, many of the former
dissidents lost their effectiveness as protesters. They spent more
of their time in school or making money or squabbling among
themselves.
This time, the administration has worked with non-governmental
groups in compiling a high-priority list of dissidents to be freed.
But their names have not been released. This is in sharp contrast
to last fall's Sino-American summit in Washington, when the White
House made no secret of its desire to see the release of Wei
Jingsheng and Wang Dan, prominent democracy activists.
Chinese prison cells are filled with other political prisoners.
By the government's count, some 2,200 remain locked up. The Clinton
administration has put special emphasis on several of them because
of the severity of their sentences or the unjust circumstances
surrounding their arrests. They include:
 Chen Longde, a human rights worker who was arrested in 1996 for
writing to the People's Congress about corruption and lack of
democracy. After suffering torture by electric shocks and beatings,
Chen jumped from a two-story platform at a labor camp. Barely
mobile because of two broken hips and a damaged kidney, he is still
forced to do labor, according to Human Rights Watch.
There are also people like Ngawang Choephel hardly a household
name here. Choephel, who who spent the 1992-93 academic year
studying and teaching ethnomusicology at Middlebury College in
Vermont on a Fulbright scholarship, was unfairly imprisoned by
China two years ago, according to US officials.
During a 1995 trip to Tibet, his homeland, he worked on a
documentary about music and dance. Chinese authorities arrested him
and charged him with spying. He was sentenced in 1996 to 18 years
in prison.
Eager to make an example of Tibetian political prisoners, China
rarely, if ever, releases them before their sentences end.
Human rights groups are divided about whether the US government
should concentrate on behind-the-scenes pleas for the release of
dissidents.
Tong Yi served as a secretary and researcher to Wei Jingshen,
the dissident. While Wei was imprisoned, she was dispatched to a
camp for more than two years. She never had a chance to dispute the
charges against her or to appeal her conviction.
The only re-education occurred when visitors toured the sites
and the guards pretended to teach lessons in Communism.
Robert Joseph Cousy, without whom there would have been no
Boston Celtics for Bill Russell to lead in the direction of those
11 championships, played his final game as a Celtic on April 24,
1963. He had sprained an ankle during the game, but he returned
with his team in trouble against a good Lakers team. With The
Cooz's firm hand on the tiller, the Celtics nailed down
championship No. 6 that night in the Los Angeles Sports Arena.
He played for the Boston Celtics, which means that his No. 14 is
just one of 18 retired numerals. So many great players have
performed for this team that it is understandable if the names and
achievements all sort of run together after a while. It is hard now
to conjure up the circumstance of the early '50s, when the Celtics
had no cachet in this town and the only reason most people went to
see the team play was the electrifying and magnetic presence of the
game's best passer, ballhandler, and thinker. Absent Cousy, the
Celtics would have quite literally ceased to exist.
Along with George Mikan, he was the NBA to the first generation
of professional basketball fans. This is why among People of a
Certain Age, Bob Cousy remains an airport traffic stopper. Bob
Cousy is one of the great American sports heroes of the century.
Much like his old coach, Red Auerbach, The Cooz respects the
past but does not wallow in it. He is, without question, more
knowledgeable about the modern NBA than any of his contemporaries
because he has left it only once in the 35 years since his
retirement, that being his six-year stint as coach at Boston
College (117-37). He coached the Cincinnati Royals from 1969
through the 23d game of the 1973-74 season, and before that
campaign was over, he began a local broadcast career that continues
to this day.
As anyone who has covered the Celtics in the last
quarter-century knows, The Cooz still does his homework. He goes to
home games in order to look over opponents he'll be discussing in
his road telecasts. He keeps voluminous files on every team. He is
always on top of the new talent. He doesn't settle for being a
raconteur. He is always current. The next night he mails in a
performance will be the first.
We can naturally assume he'll be back in the headset for another
few years. I mean, he (itals)is(unitals) Bob Cousy, is he not?
He has played against, played for, or witnessed every great team
the NBA has had to offer in the past five decades, which makes him
the ideal person to discuss the historic placement of the Chicago
Bulls.
But The Cooz will not sign on to the proclamation that the Bulls
are the greatest thing ever to come along or that their six titles
in eight years is an equivalent achievement to the Celtics' 11
championships in 13 seasons from 1957-69.
It's true. The 1962-63 Celtics included Russell, Cousy, Tom
Heinsohn, Havlicek, Frank Ramsey, Sam Jones, K.C. Jones, and an
end-of-career Clyde Lovellette, all of whom have been inducted into
the Basketball Hall of Fame.
My daddy gave the newspaper a pulse. He taught me to love its
changing canvas, its omnipotent eye, its infinite throat. And since
one long-ago tabloid featured his obituary, it is much too late to
apologize to him for compromising that love.
From time to time in my metro column, to create the desired
impact or slam home a salient point, I attributed quotes to people
who didn't exist. I could give them names, even occupations, but I
couldn't give them what they needed most a heartbeat. As anyone
who's ever touched a newspaper knows, that's one of the cardinal
sins of journalism: Thou shall not fabricate. No exceptions. No
excuses.
And yet there are always excuses. Usually they point to the
cursed fallibility of human beings, our tendency to spit in the
face of common sense, zigging when the world says zag. Sometimes
excuses reveal real or imagined inadequacies, or the belief that
the world, if it is to be conquered, must be conquered
singlehandedly.
I've already heard from dozens of people in search of an
official sound-byte, a hook upon which to hang the newly fallen
wordsmith. The (itals)reason.(unitals)
But I didn't establish priorities, and the first casualty was
time. In Boston, my face was my column. I wanted the pieces to
jolt, to be talked about, to leave the reader indelibly impressed.
And sometimes, as a result of trying to do too much at once and
cutting corners, they didn't. So I tweaked them to make sure they
did. It didn't happen often, but it did happen. And if it had only
happened once, that was one time too many.
I will survive this knowing that the heart of my columns was
honest and heartfelt. None of the pieces considered for the
American Society of Newspaper Editors award or this year's Pulitzer
Prize were doctored in any way. I will write as long as I breathe,
despite the dire predictions that this indiscretion spells the end
of my career. In the course of living this flawed life, I've
stepped into the lives of remarkable people. They will always live
in me.
So to the welders, the B-boys, the preachers, and the surgeons,
to the grocery clerks and bartenders and single mothers, to the
politicians, PR flacks, spokespersons and secretaries, to my dear
husband and family and friends, I am sorry for betraying your
trust. To the editors who supported and encouraged me, as well as
those who jumped ship when the mighty USS Smith began to take on
water, thanks for the lessons. To those colleagues and readers who
salivated daily at the thought of my head on a platter, congrats.
And to the hundreds of real people who honored me with their time
and stories, you are my salvation and I will hold you tight during
this trial.
To every single reader, young and old, black and white, who
opened their papers on Monday and Friday and trusted me to be
truth, know this: You were the truth all along.
Finally, I'd like to apologize to the memory of my father, Otis
Douglas Smith. He burns in my soul through this, and beyond this.
In three rugged months spent fly-fishing from Murmansk to
Magadan and beyond, Montaigne plunges into the method and madness
of an addictive world he has come to love through years of
reporting out of Moscow for the Philadelphia Inquirer.
The beauty of this highly accessible book lies in Montaigne's
sense that to parse Russia, one must at some point escape the big
cities and venture into villages and wilderness. Montaigne is no
tea-drinking urban intellectual in need of the theater to
understand the fatalism and laughter-through-tears ethic that make
this country tick.
In a tone engaged but distanced, and in a language denuded of
adornment, Montaigne details the lives of hermits and truckers,
fishermen and madmen. This is not an idyllic version of pastoral.
Montaigne writes, accurately, of a country awash in hopelessness,
alcoholism, and a conviction that rules are for the weak. But he
also shows the real Russia to be generous, friendly, and, at times,
hard-working.
The writer's friend Chumak, an extraordinarily foulmouthed but
endearing farmer in southern Russia, typifies the medieval
conditions of this former agricultural powerhouse.
In the depths of far eastern Siberia, scrappy, entrepreneurial
long-haul truckers who make their living transporting Korean
cookies to villages in the middle of nowhere take Montaigne along
for the ride, generously sharing provisions. These truckers, for
whom a breakdown in 50-degrees-below-zero winters can be deadly,
listen to their rickety Kamaz engines as carefully as a Bolshoi
Theater-goer does a symphony.
Montaigne is not always the cultural anthropologist a journalist
should be, especially when he dismisses Soviet monuments and
slogans as nonsense or resorts to stale asides about the
Bolsheviks. And he is a novice of a fly-fisherman, maladroit in the
art of deceiving one's prey at least in Russia. But the blunt,
direct style that for most of his journey yields him few trout
serves him well as a narrator, and one need not be a fisherman or a
Russophile to gain pleasure from this book.
Several times, Montaigne describes himself as bitten by the
fishing bug, enraptured by the art of beguiling his quarry. But
what has really captured and enchanted Montaigne's soul is Russia.
His is an adventure of which well-heeled Western anglers kitted
out in costly accouterments and tangled up in expectations that the
world must be ordered and rational to make sense can only dream.
 For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at the
Boston Globe, 617-929-2597. For individual purchase of graphics
or photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.
CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) -- During President Clinton's trip to
China, the United States is going to handle the dissident issue
behind closed doors and not through the press. By David L. Marcus.
1300 words. (w and i coding)
HOLBROOKE-ANALYSIS (Washington) -- President Clinton's
nomination of Richard Holbrooke as ambassador to the UN marks an
effort to give new energy to America's foreign policy team as
crises loom in Asia, the Balkans and the Middle East. By David L.
Marcus. (w and i coding) 1200 words.
TOBACCO-BILL (Washington) -- Nearly one year after state
attorneys general hashed out an agreement with the tobacco
industry, and after polls showed public support and a majority of
the Senate said it favored the legislation, the bill still died. By
Bob Hohler. (2 takes; w and a coding)
JEWS-SOUTH (Jackson, Miss.) -- Although Jews have disappeared
from dozens of villages in the Baptist-dominated Bible Belt, Jewish
communities are thriving in cities such as Atlanta, Charlotte,
N.C., Charleston, S.C., and New Orleans. Memphis is the home of the
largest Orthodox congregation in the country. By Curtis Wilkie.
1100 words.
SMITH-COLUMN (Undated) -- To every single reader, young and old,
black and white, who trusted me to be truth, know this: You were
the truth all along. By Patricia Smith. (Moved in last night's
cycle.)
VENNOCHI-COLUMN (Boston) -- Hide the Big Dig? Put the Garden
demolition under wraps? Why not simply build a Truman Show kind of
set for the DNC and make it even easier to hide Boston's flaws? By
Joan Vennochi.
MUSIC-LYRES (Undated) When the Lyres are on Jeff Conolly
playing his Vox Continental one-handed, shaking a tambourine with
the other, and scream-singing, with his three mates pumping away life does not get much better. By Jim Sullivan.
BOOK-RUSSIA (Undated) In three rugged months spent fly-fishing
from Murmansk to Magadan and beyond, Fen Montaigne plunges into the
method and madness of an addictive world he has come to love
through years of reporting out of Moscow for the Philadelphia
Inquirer. By Lynnley Browning.
RAC-NH-SWEEPS (Salem, N.H.) Without a win since last year, OK
By Me has an excellent chance to get back on track over a surface
he relishes. By Ron Indrisano.
Perhaps, newcomer Christoper Scott Cherot, who wrote, directed,
and stars in the failed screwball comedy, should have found one job
he was good at, and stuck with it. He's spread himself too thin,
and just about every seam shows, with often clunky dialogue, flat
direction, and airless performances, save for Tammi Katherine
Jones's hilarious film debut, as one of the women eager to jump the
bones of Cherot's Lee Plenty.
Lee is a would-be writer with a monster case of writer's block.
He's also homeless at the moment, resigned to keeping a roof over
his by housesitting and visiting friends. One of those friends is
Havilland Savage (Chenoa Maxwell, saddled with as absurb movie name
as you'll find), who is attractive, rich, and engaged to a annoying
boyfriend Michael (Hill Harper), an annoyingly pompous singer on
that rub-you-down, quiet storm R'n'B tip.
Still, all of this might have been disgestible had Cherot not
resorted to the creaky tactic of speaking directly to the audience a lot. With rare exception, this is a screenwriter's way of
plugging the plot holes and narrative failings his lack of
creativity could not. If a movie is any good, it usually doesn't
need one of the characters acting as the play-by-play announcer.
The film's conclusion and the title's a dead giveaway is
cheap and unbelievable, and has the audacity to attempt a Profound
Statement about an artist's integrity vs. commercial success. Yeah,
right.
WASHINGTON President Clinton nominated Richard Holbrooke as
ambassador to the United Nations Thursday, to energize the US
foreign policy team as crises loom in Asia, the Balkans and the
Middle East.
Clinton chose Holbrooke, a hard-charging diplomat and investment
banker, because the United States is struggling to reform the
United Nations while prodding allies to take tougher approaches
against pariah countries such as Iraq. At the same time, the
administration wanted a forceful advocate to urge Congress to pay
back dues of more than $1 billion to the UN.
Holbrooke has openly campaigned for a high-level job foreign
policy job in the administration for two years. Officials who
followed the decision-making said the traits that initially hurt
him including an oversized ego and a reputation for stirring
things up worked to his advantage this time.
The ascension of Holbrooke, a friend of both Clinton and Vice
President Al Gore, comes as the administration tries to recover
from several foreign policy setbacks. The Middle East process is
stalled, and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's top advisers
fear a resurgence of terrorism against Israelis. Nuclear tests by
India in May caught the United States by surprise, despite what had
been regarded as a close relationship with the government in New
Delhi.
At the UN, the administration is frustrated by European
governments' reluctance to impose harsh sanctions on Iraq. And many
of Clinton's advisers agree with Holbrooke's assertion that ethnic
fighting in the Kosovo province of Serbia will spill out to
neighboring countries unless the West quells the violence soon.
In a meeting with India's new government this spring, Richardson
reportedly spent little time talking about the prospect of nuclear
tests and said the United States wanted to broaden its
relationship. Just a few weeks later, India conducted five atomic
blasts.
US officials disagreed about exactly what Richardson had said
during his private meetings in New Delhi, and several said the
State Department had unfairly blamed him for failing to send clear
signals to India.
The officials said that in 1996, Albright resisted suggestions
that Holbrooke serve at the UN because of his reputation for
working on his own and bucking his superiors. But after a year and
a half as Secretary of State, Albright apparently feels comfortable
enough to share the limelight.
Since John F. Kennedy appointed Adlai Stevenson ambassador to
the UN in 1961, most political appointees in the post have been
made members of the Cabinet. Although in theory they report to the
secretary of state, they sit at Cabinet meetings and give their own
recommendations on policy.
As a diplomat, Holbrooke has been involved in major events from
the Paris Peace Talks that ended the Vietnam war to the Dayton
talks that brought a fragile peace to Bosnia. Currently the vice
president of Credit Suisse First Boston, he served as a young
diplomat under then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, worked as a
Peace Corps country director in Morocco, assistant secretary of
State for Asia and ambassador to Germany.
Democrats and Republicans agree that without Holbrooke's
constant prodding, the Bosnian peace accord would not have been
signed in 1995. But not everyone is a fan of Holbrooke or the
peacekeeping mission he engineered.
(This report was prepared by Bob Hohler, Michael Kranish, Brian
McGrory and Estella Duran of the Globe's Washington bureau and was
written by Hohler.)
Cigarette makers had saturated the airwaves with a $40 million
assault on the plan. The measure had mushroomed from a $368.5
billion blueprint to a $516 billion package stuffed with so many
special-interest extras that not even its staunchest supporters
would defend it in its entirety.
And House Speaker Newt Gingrich had recently sent a chilling
message to his Senate colleagues. With Republicans at risk of
losing control of the House in the November elections, Gingrich
wanted no part of the high-stakes debate over the plan to punish
the tobacco industry for the next 25 years.
Thursday, Lott and Gringrich said they will try to move forward
a narrower, less costly tobacco bill, while supporters of the
Senate bill launched a prolonged effort to revive the measure.
The continued skirmishing is part of a saga rich with
legislative infighting, political intrigue, and competing
presidential ambitions. And though the antitobacco plan's official
cause of death was listsed as a one-two parliamentary punch by
Senate Republican leaders and their allies, an examination of the
plan's brief, tumultuous life showed many other factors contributed
to its demise.
It was a year ago Saturday that Moore, the attorneys general
from 39 other states, and lawyers for smokers with tobacco-related
illnesses reached an agreement with the cigarette makers.
The deal gave the industry what it wanted: financial stability
that would come with immunity from future class-action lawsuits and
a $5 billion annual cap for individual liability claims.
In exchange, the cigarette companies agreed to pay $368.5
billion over 25 years to help states pay for smoking-related
medical costs and antismoking initiatives. The industry also would
stop most of its marketing practices, including the use of Joe
Camel and the Marlboro Man. And the Food and Drug Administration
would be granted authority to regulate nicotine as a drug, with the
power to ban it as early as 2010.
Morris had worked in Mississippi for trial lawyer Richard
Scruggs, polling on the tobacco issue in preparation for a
potential lawsuit. The polling, Morris said Thursday, showed that
even smokers favored greater restrictions on teenage smoking.
Although Morris's mother died in 1993 from smoking-related
cancer, he said he raised the issue with the Clinton administration
in purely political terms.
It was, by many accounts, a novel and potentially effective
idea, one with a clear villain and an obvious beneficiary take on
the mammoth tobacco companies for the sake of America's children.
Morris drew then-FDA chief David Kessler into the fray, who
lobbied Vice President Al Gore for his support. With Gore as the
leader, the group made a strong case to Clinton in the spring of
1995. Gore, a Tennessee native, persuaded Clinton he could survive
the issue in the tobacco-growing states in the 1996 elections.
Within days of the accord, Clinton called on Congress to approve
it so he could sign it into law. But the settlement was never again
the same.
In the Senate, Lott said he would recuse himself from the
tobacco debate because Scruggs, who stands to make millions of
dollars in fees for helping Moore win the Mississipi case, is his
brother-in-law. Lott appointed a deputy, Senator Don Nickles,
Republican of Oklahoma, to handle the issue.
At first, the tobacco plan was so broad that seven Senate
committees claimed jurisdiction over it. Several chairmen wrangled
behind-the-scenes for months for control of the bill before Senator
John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Commerce Committee,
prevailed.
For McCain, who is considering running for president, the
assignment was a powerful opportunity to boost his national
profile. But in the Senate, where 15 other members have either
sought the presidency or expressed interest in running in 2000, the
job also stirred the competitive fires of some potential foes.
But other opposition arose. When McCain's bill cleared the
committee, it dwarfed last year's settlement with the states,
raising the price by nearly $150 billion and removing immunity from
future class-action suits.
Indeed, a week after McCain's bill passed in the committee, the
tobacco industry vowed to kill the measure. That was no idle threat
on Capitol Hill, where big tobacco has long succeeded in defeating
legislation.
With 200 lobbyists on its payroll or two for each of the 100
senators the industry quickly went to work. But the lobbyists
needed help, and the industry soon launched an unprecedented
advertising blitz to turn voters against the bill.
The effort was modeled after the campaign used by business
groups to kill Clinton's sweeping health-care proposal in 1994,
demonizing the tobacco plan as big-government intrusion and a
massive tax hike. In the health campaign, business groups spent an
estimated $14 million on television commercials featuring Harry and
Louise, two average people worried about the cost and impact of the
president's proposal.
The ad campaign was only the start. In a surprising tactic, the
industry ads attacked McCain, even though he seemed an unlikely
target as a former prisoner of war in the Vietnam War whom many
consider a hero.
The alliance's strategy reveals much about the way the industry
defeated the bill. The group was primarily responsible for a
massive letter-writing campaign against the legislation. But the
alliance also paid for print and radio advertisements in many
states, including several states with early presidential primaries
and caucuses, such as New Hampshire, Iowa and South Carolina. The
ads also aired in tobacco-growing states, such as Kentucky, and
swing states represented by senators who could play a key role in
the vote, such as Kansas and Pennsylvania.
The campaign provided critical support for Ashcroft, Gramm, and
Nickles as they blasted the measure on the Senate floor as the
worst tax-and-spend fiasco in decades.
In addition, the tobacco industry flooded Republicans with
campaign contributions. In the current campaign cycle, as of April
1, the industry gave $3.4 million to Republicans and $933,016 to
Democrats.
The contributions had an impact on the senators, according to
Public Citizen, a watchdog group. The organization found that the
34 senators who voted mostly in favor of the tobacco industry
received seven times as much political action committee money as
the 40 senators who voted against the industry most of the time.
Meanwhile, McCain's fragile coalition slowly crumbled. As the
Senate's GOP majority passed a series of amendments by Gramm,
Ashcroft, and other foes of the measure, the bill's breadth and
cost rose, alienating some of the centrists McCain and his allies
were counting on.
The bill's supporters said one of the most damaging amendments,
sponsored by Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican,
stripped a provision that would have capped the tobacco industry's
annual liability from individual lawsuits at $8 billion. Critics
said the amendment could bankrupt the tobacco industry, a major
concern to a dozen senators from tobacco-growing states, many of
whom once supported the bill.
By Wednesday, when Lott summoned the GOP senators to his office
to consider killing the bill, Republican pollster Linda DiVall had
completed a survey that ran counter to nearly every poll on the
tobacco issue.
DiVall's findings showed respondents, by a margin of 57 percent
to 34 percent, opposed the McCain bill when they were told it would
raise the price of cigarettes by $1.10 a pack over five years and
expand the bureaucracy.
There is the usual soccer fanaticism a fan recently scoured
the downtown strip of sports stores buying up 1,000 Iranian jerseys
for friends in the United States. Some universities postponed exams
and people have delayed summer vacations until after the World Cup
Tournament.
But the love of Iranian soccer is better illustrated by impish
nine-year-old Samayeh Hemati. Under the required head scarf and
black cape, there's a soccer fan in blue jeans and sneakers.
She plays with the boys in the street and saves a picture of her
favorite Iranian forward.
Women might be the country's biggest fans, though they cannot
play on organized teams. When the team qualified for the tournament
in December, men and women danced side-by-side in the streets. The
ruling religious Mullahs were nervous, but did not dare try to stop
them.
It had been 20 years since Iran made it to the World Cup. Since
then, Iranians replaced a brutal, American-backed, dictator with a
popular, but stern, Islamic revolution. They stormed the U.S.
Embassy in 1979, holding 52 Americans captive for 444 days. Later,
the Iranians saw one of their airliners shot down by a U.S. Navy
missile.
Last year they surprised the world by electing President
Mohammad Khatami, who promised to loosen the strict religious codes
if he can hold off the more powerful religious conservatives.
When the team qualified for the World Cup in December, thousands
of women forced their way into the 100,000 seat male-only stadium
to honor the team. People danced in the street and soccer started
to mean change.
President Clinton has taped a goodwill message with the hope it
will be viewed on TV by Iranians during the game and a Swiss
referee has been chosen to make sure things are neutral.
Symptomatic of the country's identity crisis, Iranians have been
flipping channels between the World Cup action and the dramatic
broadcasts of the popular, reformist, mayor of Tehran. He is
defending himself against religious conservatives who have put him
on trial.
Even today is not just saved for soccer. Sunday is a work day
here and the hard-line Iranian parliament is holding an impeachment
hearing for one of Khatami's most important cabinet members.
Saturday's newspapers focused on that battle as well as the game
against the U.S., but it was clear that the soccer team is
identified with reform.
Iran is at a crossroads. Its 60 million people are testing the
limits of new personal freedoms and emerging from years of war and
world isolation.
So, when Sunday's game starts in Lyon, France, at 11:30 p.m.
Tehran time (mid-afternoon Eastern time), almost all Iranians will
be watching, but at home.
Community centers had planned to show the game on big screens,
but those plans were scrapped out of what many see as government
concern that a win or tie could spark highly un-religious street
celebrations in the early morning.
There is the usual soccer fanaticism a fan recently scoured
the downtown strip of sports stores buying up 1,000 Iranian jerseys
for friends in the United States. Some universities postponed exams
and people have delayed summer vacations until after the World Cup
Tournament.
But the love of Iranian soccer is better illustrated by impish
nine-year-old Samayeh Hemati. Under the required head scarf and
black cape, there's a soccer fan in blue jeans and sneakers.
She plays with the boys in the street and saves a picture of her
favorite Iranian forward.
Women might be the country's biggest fans, though they cannot
play on organized teams. When the team qualified for the tournament
in December, men and women danced side-by-side in the streets. The
ruling religious Mullahs were nervous, but did not dare try to stop
them.
It had been 20 years since Iran made it to the World Cup. Since
then, Iranians replaced a brutal, American-backed, dictator with a
popular, but stern, Islamic revolution. They stormed the U.S.
Embassy in 1979, holding 52 Americans captive for 444 days. Later,
the Iranians saw one of their airliners shot down by a U.S. Navy
missile.
Last year they surprised the world by electing President
Mohammad Khatami, who promised to loosen the strict religious codes
if he can hold off the more powerful religious conservatives.
When the team qualified for the World Cup in December, thousands
of women forced their way into the 100,000 seat male-only stadium
to honor the team. People danced in the street and soccer started
to mean change.
President Clinton has taped a goodwill message with the hope it
will be viewed on TV by Iranians during the game and a Swiss
referee has been chosen to make sure things are neutral.
Symptomatic of the country's identity crisis, Iranians have been
flipping channels between the World Cup action and the dramatic
broadcasts of the popular, reformist, mayor of Tehran. He is
defending himself against religious conservatives who have put him
on trial.
Even today is not just saved for soccer. Sunday is a work day
here and the hard-line Iranian parliament is holding an impeachment
hearing for one of Khatami's most important cabinet members.
Saturday's newspapers focused on that battle as well as the game
against the U.S., but it was clear that the soccer team is
identified with reform.
WASHINGTON The Senate is poised to try yet again in July to
enact legislation that has been around in one form or another for
more than a decade a bill setting nationwide standards to limit
damage awards to people harmed by faulty products as diverse as
heart valves and tractors.
Although its supporters have come tantalizingly close on several
occasions only to see legislative agreements fall to pieces at the
last moment, they are unusually optimistic this time around. The
main reason is that there is now apparent agreement among the
principals: the White House; Sen. Slade Gorton of Washington, the
chief Republican spokesman on the issue, and Sen. Jay Rockefeller,
D-W.Va., who has made product liability almost a personal crusade.
In fact, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott has told senators and
reporters that he now believes the measure has sufficient support
and that he expects to bring it to the floor for a vote around July
14. The principal obstacle to the legislation has always been in
the Senate, and not the House, supporters of the bill agree.
The issue pits an array of business interests who favor limits
on court-approved damage awards against a coalition of consumer
groups and trial lawyers and their influential trade organization.
The nation's largest manufacturers have said that the bill to be
voted on next month does not go far enough and that they will
oppose it.
Whether to regulate damages in court cases is among the most
complex and often abstract of issues. How should the United States
structure its civil litigation system to achieve maximum fairness
and accessibility?
Supporters of the measure contend that the legislation is needed
to put a cap on multimillion-dollar jury awards that are out of
control and inhibit manufacturers and add to consumer costs.
Opponents, like Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a
consumer group in Washington, argue that by limiting awards for
punitive damages, which are typically given to express anger at
reckless or outrageously negligent actions, there is little
incentive for manufacturers to stop making unsafe products.
In addition to battles over the merits of the argument, the
debate is being fought with millions of dollars in campaign
donations and lobbying fees. The trial lawyers are traditional
benefactors of the Democrats, while the manufacturers are among the
most generous sources of political donations for the Republicans.
It would for the first time set national standards for product
liability lawsuits, including preventing litigation against
retailers and wholesalers unless they had altered the product.
It would also prohibit lawsuits for damages caused by durable
goods like machine tools or tractors that were more than 18 years
old.
The bill's limits on punitive damages have been narrowed from
the original bill vetoed by Clinton, in which all companies would
have benefited. Under the current version, limits on punitive
damages would apply only to companies with fewer than 25 employees
or with annual revenues of less than $5 million. The limit on what
an injured person could collect would be $250,000 or twice the
actual damages a person suffers, that is, lost wages and medical
expenses.
The business community had been united in support of the
original bill. But when the punitive damages restriction was
limited to small businesses, the Civil Justice Reform Group,
composed of such companies as Du Pont, General Motors and Exxon,
recently wrote to Senator Lott saying it would not support the
legislation.
Rockefeller said that with the majority of the Senate's 55
Republicans supporting the bill along with about a dozen Democrats,
he is hopeful that there would be at least the 60 votes needed to
cut off any filibuster or extended debate.
SAN FRANCISCO It's the longest 468 yards in golf, a par 4 for
masochists. The fairway climbs to a slick green guarded by deep
bunkers and deep rough. As if its uphill length were not formidable
enough, it usually plays into a chill wind off the Pacific.
This is the 17th hole in Olympic's three-hole theater (of the
absurd?) where the 98th U.S. Open is very likely to be won and lost
Sunday. It begins with the 609-yard marathon 16th. It ends with the
18th's 347-yard tunnel of trouble.
Don't be surprised if this year's Open turns on the 17th hole,
just as the 1987 Open turned there.
Stewart's 3 was one of only eight birdies over the first two
rounds on the 17th, this Open's most difficult hole. Through 36
holes, the average score there was 4.69 strokes, up from 4.56 in
1987, when Scott Simpson's 10-foot par putt preserved his
one-stroke victory over Tom Watson.
For the Olympic Club members, the 17th is a par 5 of 522 yards
from the championship tee. But for the four Opens here, U.S. Golf
Association officials have preferred to use shorter tees and
decreed it to be a par 4.
In 1987's final round, Simpson had a one-stroke lead on Watson
when his second shot on the 17th drifted into the left bunker. When
he blasted out to 10 feet, a bogey seemed to loom, but he holed the
par putt. Watson, in the final group, had a par there, and Simpson,
up ahead, had a par at 18.
Needing a birdie to force an 18-hole playoff, Watson rapped a
45-foot uphill putt that stopped inches short.
Simpson had taken the lead with a 15-foot birdie putt on the
dogleg-left 16th hole, which is playing at 609 yards in this Open.
Over the first two rounds, nobody reached the 16th green in two,
and over the history of Olympic, only two golfers have reached the
green in two.
In the 1920s, Bobby Jones once reached the 17th green in two,
but in that era, the fairway was hard, and the cypress and pine
trees that now tower on the left had not been planted yet. Last
year an Olympic member, Michael Blewith, did it.
In Ben Hogan's playoff with the virtual unknown Jack Fleck that
year, he trailed by one stroke going to the treacherous tunnel of
the 347-yard final hole. After yanking his tee shot into the left
rough, he needed three slashes with his wedge to escape, then
needed a 40-foot putt to save a double-bogey 6.
In the final round in 1966, Arnold Palmer, who had a
seven-stroke lead on Billy Casper with nine holes to play, still
had a one-stroke lead on the 18th tee. Palmer pulled a 1-iron into
the rough and wobbled to a bogey, creating an 18-hole playoff that
Casper won.
And Sunday the leaders in this year's Open will be center stage
in the theater of Olympic's 16th, 17th and 18th holes with the
trophy up for grabs. The winner is most likely to be the golfer who
keeps his tee shots out of the rough.
NEW ORLEANS Maurice Greene felt he was ready to break the
world record for the 100-meter dash. His coaches said he was ready.
His opponents said he was ready.
Saturday night, the world champion gets a big chance. The
occasion is right the U.S. outdoor track and field championships.
The heat and humidity provides good sprinting weather because his
muscles can get loose. The opposition is expected to include such
world-class sprinters as Dennis Mitchell, Tim Montgomery and Brian
Lewis.
And Greene, like many other Americans, was not enamored with the
frequent breast-beating of Donovan Bailey, the Canadian who set the
record of 9.84 seconds in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.
Friday night, the 23-year-old Greene moved toward his goal. In
the quarterfinals, he ran impressively and won in 9.84 seconds,
helped by a following wind too strong to allow record recognition.
In the semifinals 2 hours 20 minutes later, although he did not
look overly sharp, he still won cleanly in 9.96 seconds.
Very good, according to two victims in that race. One was
30-year-old Kevin Little, a high-level sprinter for a decade. The
other was 19-year-old Ja'Warren Hooker, a Washington freshman and
one of America's sprint proteges.
At least Little knew what to expect. Hooker, who had never run
against Greene before, faced him in the quarterfinals and
semifinals.
Friday night's winners included John Godina in the men's discus
throw (220 feet 1 inch), Marc Davis in the men's 5,000 meters (13
minutes 40.62 seconds) and Lynn Jennings in the women's 10,000
meters (34:09.86). For the 37-year-old Jennings, it was the seventh
title in 12 years in this event and her 38th national title
overall. 
Victor Romagna, an outspoken force in America's Cup yacht racing
for a quarter of a century, died June 12 at his home in Annapolis,
Md. He was 80.
Romagna sailed on the crew of three successful America's Cup
defense teams: the 12-Meter Columbia in 1958, Weatherly in 1962 and
Intrepid in 1967.
A sailboat efficiency expert, Romagna was instrumental in
rearranging the layout of Intrepid for the 1967 cup races. The
yacht's winches were moved below deck to reduce clutter, and the
cockpit was moved forward to improve viewing.
Romagna and Emil (Bus) Mosbacher Jr., who was Intrepid's skipper
in 1967, led their United States America's Cup team to victory
against the Australian challenger, Dame Pattie, in a 4-0 sweep.
During the cup races of 1980 and 1983, Romagna served as
secretary of the America's Cup Selection Committee of the New York
Yacht Club, which was the guardian of the America's Cup for 132
years.
In 1983, when the club finally lost its ornate silver trophy to
Australia, Romagna was one of the first to concede that he had
mixed feelings about seeing it go. He had become increasingly
agitated over the creeping commercialism in cup racing and bemoaned
the loss of amateurism in the sport.
Romagna was born in Port Washington, N.Y., and lived there until
1981, when he retired to Annapolis. He learned to sail on Manhasset
Bay and competed on Long Island Sound during the 1940s in several
classes of small boats. When he was 17, he sailed in his first
Newport Bermuda Race.
He competed in 22 Bermuda races, two trans-Atlantic competitions
and three British Fastnet Races. He was inducted into the America's
Cup Hall of Fame in 1994 and was an honorary trustee of the South
Street Seaport in New York. He was sailing coach at the U.S. Naval
Academy from 1981 to 1989.
Romagna served in the Coast Guard during World War II. From 1960
to 1981, he worked at Ivy Hill Corp. a printing firm, and was vice
president of sales when he retired.
He is survived by his wife, Louise; three daughters, Lisa
Frappaolo, of Port Washington, Marion Jones, of Catonsville, Md.,
and Lenore Alexander, of Annapolis; a brother, Leonard, of Sun City
Center, Fla., and four grandchildren.
Federal officials, who were alerted to the study by an anonymous
complaint, investigated whether the surgeons violated guidelines
governing informed consent in human experiments, but determined
that they had no jurisdiction in the case. The study was published
in the journal Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery in December 1996,
but has only recently been noticed outside the field.
The study involved 20 women and a man, whose average age was 59,
who went to Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital in 1992 and 1993
for face lifts, for which they paid. On one half of the face,
surgeons cut the skin at the hairline and pulled it back and up.
They pulled and tightened the underlying muscle, as if gathering
the pleats of a skirt, but did not cut it.
In the second, more aggressive procedure, other surgeons cut
beneath skin and tissue from the side of the face toward the nose,
cut and pulled the underlying muscle back and upward, then
reattached it. Some believe this procedure to be more effective in
the long run, but it also carries a higher chance that nerves will
be accidentally cut and the face partly paralyzed.
The surgeons, who were seeking to resolve a 20-year debate about
which procedure is more effective, say there is little if any
noticeable difference in the two sides of the patients' faces. But
the study checked the patients once, one year after the procedures,
and other plastic surgeons say it may be years before it is known
whether the patients' faces will show any irregularities.
The crux of the ethical dispute is whether federal and state
rules concerning medical experiments on humans applied to this
study. Critics say that this was the case: that the surgeons should
have had the study approved in advance by their hospital's ethics
committee, referred to by doctors as an institutional review board,
or IRB. The critics also contend that the doctors should have given
patients consent forms explaining in detail the procedures and
risks they faced.
The study's authors say that they did not seek committee
approval or give detailed consent forms because neither was
necessary. Since the two procedures were well established, they
said, the study was not a human experiment. And so the patients
were asked to sign a general consent form given to all surgery
patients and were simply given an oral description of the study.
The doctors who carried out the study agreed to contact some
patients for interviews, but ultimately, only one patient, speaking
on condition of anonymity, talked to a reporter.
She is a woman in her 70s who said she was pleased with the face
lift she received from the doctors. Asked if she was aware that she
was the subject of a study, she said she was the type of person who
doesn't want to know much about what's going to happen.
The law suggests otherwise. Under both federal and New York
state law, a human experiment is defined simply as an investigation
that uses people's bodies and is not required for the direct
diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a patient's condition. It
does not matter whether the procedures being used are experimental
or not, according to federal health officials.
Robert Hinkley, a spokesman for the New York state Department of
Health, said the department was starting to look into the case.
From an initial reading of the study, he said, it appears that the
researchers should have gone to an institutional review committee
and gotten formal written consent from the patients. If the Health
Department determines that the doctors violated state law, they
could face unspecified sanctions.
The federal watchdog agency that monitors human experiments, the
Office of Protection from Research Risks at the Department of
Health and Human Services, was alerted to the study by an anonymous
letter from New York, which said:
The federal agency concluded that the study was indeed human
experimentation, but that since no federal funds were used to
conduct it, it had no jurisdiction to investigate further.
Aston said the study proved that the more limited face-lift
procedure could do just as well. Nevertheless, he still uses both
procedures in his own practice, depending on the patient.
Dr. Sam Hamra is a plastic surgeon in Dallas who was a resident
with Aston at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital. He said
he declined an invitation to participate in the experiment, and has
been critical of the study, which he called highly unusual.
Hamra reviewed the study at the time, and in an article that
appeared in the same issue in which the study was published, wrote
that the surgeons in the study failed to carry out the more
extensive surgical procedure properly. That is why so little
difference between the two face halves was noted afterward, he
said.
He said that after conversations with Aston and others, he
believed the patients were not fully briefed by the surgeons.
Aston said that any criticism by Hamra was suspect because Hamra
was a champion of the more aggressive procedure in face lifts.
Dr. Joel Feldman of Harvard University said that he recalled the
debate over the study when it was first presented, and was at the
time supportive of the work.
ALBANY, N.Y. Gov. George Pataki began the year with a modest
list of things he wanted out of the Legislature: end parole for
violent felons, permit charter schools, allow casino gambling,
toughen penalties for juvenile criminals.
He got none of those. But while the 1998 legislative session,
which ended Friday, may look like a bust for the Republican
governor, it gave him a few handy issues to use as he runs for
re-election this year, particularly the time-worn theme that
Democrats are soft on crime.
He signaled as much in a news conference Friday afternoon in
which he reviewed a session that was widely seen as one of the
least eventful in memory. Pataki bemoaned the gridlock in the
Capitol, and blamed the Democrats who control the Assembly.
Pataki's political advisers calculated that there was not much
he needed, politically, from this session, and they may have been
right. Polls show him with huge leads over his Democratic rivals,
and the governor seemed to spend more time this year touring the
state to promote his record than working in the Capitol to enhance
it.
Even his allies in the Legislature say that except for the
parole issue, he did not break a sweat this year lobbying for his
agenda.
He can tell communities in western New York and the Catskills
that see casinos as their best hope for economic development that
he tried, but he did not push the issue hard enough to raise the
ire of conservatives who oppose gambling.
And he can tell minority communities that favor charter schools
that he fought their fight, only to be thwarted by the Assembly's
top Democrats, though the Republicans who control the Senate were
in no hurry to go down that road, either.
In a way, it was a year made for political posturing, and not
just because of the coming election. In years past, lawmakers often
hitched smaller issues to larger ones, giving them leverage to get
more things done.
But this year, for the first time since Pataki was elected in
1994, there were no momentous issues hanging over the lawmakers'
heads, no budget crisis, no plan for deep cuts, no rent controls
ready to expire, no deadline for welfare reform. As legislators
noted repeatedly all year, there was nothing that, for either side,
HAD to be done.
In the final days of the session, there were a few notable
pieces of legislation passed, including one requiring that people
infected with HIV be reported to the state Health Department and
their sexual partners notified. Lawmakers also agreed on a program
of inspections and emissions-testing for heavy trucks and buses,
something long sought by environmentalists. And a deal was struck
on the management of the new Hudson River park in Manhattan that
places some limits on development along the river.
For the Assembly Democrats, especially Speaker Sheldon Silver,
the session went much as it did for Pataki. They, too, calculated
that there was not much they needed, politically. They, too,
entered the year with a limited agenda, and in defeat found
election-year ammunition.
Pataki's broad budget vetoes in April denied the Democrats much
of what they wanted, including a $500 million increase in spending
on school construction and a tripling of spending on child care.
Silver refused to negotiate with Pataki and Senate Majority Leader
Joseph Bruno on restoring some of the vetoed items, saying it was
all or nothing.
From the start, the speaker made it clear that he would rather
have the issue to use against Pataki than have a fraction of the
money back. And as the session ended, Silver kept up his attacks on
the governor with an eye toward the November election.
The Assembly Democrats called for steps to reduce New York's
auto insurance rates, knowing well that the Republicans would
reject them. Again, even before the session had ended, the defeat
had become a campaign issue, as the Democrats running against the
governor piggy-backed on the Assembly's plans and blamed Pataki for
high premiums.
It was telling that when asked what he considered the major
achievement of the session, Silver cited not a piece of
legislation, but a process: the negotiation of a budget through
public conference committees with the Senate, rather than in
private talks.
Somewhat obscured by the furor over the vetoes was the
Democrats' achievement of some of the things they wanted most this
year, including a large increase in basic school aid, expansion of
the state's health care program for poor children, and a process
for people to appeal when their health insurance companies deny
coverage for certain treatments.
The Assembly passed a criminal-justice package that included the
governor's proposal to end parole, though it also included other
measures that Pataki and the Senate refused to accept. In the end,
no law was enacted, but the Democrats can go home and tell voters
that they, too, voted to abolish parole.
So attractive was that measure as a piece of political cover
that all the Republicans in the Assembly voted for it as well, for
fear that they would be accused of opposing the anti-parole
measure.
Ms. Merritt was born in Emporia, Va., but moved to Philadelphia
while a toddler to be reared by an aunt and uncle after her mother
died. Yearning for a career as an opera singer, she studied at the
Settlement School of Music in Philadelphia, and at Temple
University and New York University.
Later, Ms. Merritt toured as a backup singer for Harry Belafonte
and Jackie Wilson and sang at Carnegie Hall in 1985 as part of the
Kool Jazz Festival and Salute to Cole Porter.
Ms. Merritt is survived by her husband of 52 years, Benjamin
Hines, and by four children, Norman, Benjamin Jr. and Denise, all
of Hollis, and Dennis, of St. Louis.
NEW YORK The city agency that has provided shelter and other
services to tens of thousands of homeless New Yorkers is entering
an era of sharp retrenchment as the Giuliani administration
intensifies its efforts to take the city out of the business of
running shelters.
In the spending plan that begins July 1, the Giuliani
administration will cut 1,000 positions from the Department of
Homeless Services roughly half of its staff over a year. The
changes are part of a broader effort to hand over the task of
running the city's homeless services to the private sector.
And in about three weeks, the city intends to officially stop
using so-called welfare hotels as long-term shelters for homeless
families. This change will end an ambitious effort, begun almost
two decades ago, to shelter all who knocked at the municipal door.
Much larger hotels once bulged with hundreds of poor people and
came to symbolize all that was wrong with the nation's policy on
housing the homeless.
The city will also hand over five more shelters to the private
sector, reducing the number of shelters that it operates to 10 from
15. By the end of the next fiscal year it will run four shelters
for single adults and six for families. It used to operate most of
its 44 shelters for single adults. Most of its 80 shelters for
families have already been turned over to private nonprofit
organizations.
The shift in homeless services to private hands could be the
turning point in negotiations over whether to keep the
five-year-old Department of Homeless Services. The agency, which
comes up for renewal every three years, is scheduled to dissolve
June 30 if an agreement cannot be reached.
Both Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and City Council Speaker Peter
Vallone support measures to make the agency permanent, but they
disagree on several issues, including the cutbacks at the agency
and conditions at the Emergency Assistance Unit, the office in the
Bronx where homeless families are screened and referred to
shelters.
Stephen DiBrienza, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the
Council's general welfare committee, which oversees the agency,
says he is concerned that reducing the agency's staff will rob the
homeless of essential services. Among the employees to be
eliminated are case management workers who counsel and nurse
families in the hotels. The other positions include workers who
serve food and do the dishes and laundry. The city plans to offer
those jobs to private agencies, officials said.
Gordon Campbell, the commissioner of the Department of Homeless
Services, said that in about three weeks, the city will no longer
use the hotels to house families beyond the 10 days that it takes
officials to determine whether a family has absolutely no place to
go besides a shelter. That change will diminish the need for the
case management workers at the hotels, he said. In 1993, the city
had contracts with 22 such hotels, and now it has 10, he said.
Under city law, New York is allowed to put homeless families in
commercial hotels for up to 60 days while they seek permanent
housing. For stays beyond 60 days, the law requires that the hotels
be no larger than 100 units and have kitchens in each unit. Since
December 1996, the city has not used hotels that do not comply,
Campbell said.
Friday, DiBrienza was working on a compromise that he planned to
submit to his committee for a vote Monday and to the full Council
on Wednesday. If the Council moves forward on a bill without a nod
from the administration, the measure could languish in
administrative limbo for months, resulting in the dissolution of
the agency.
The Department of Homeless Services has been given high marks by
homeless advocates for improving services for poor people and
finding permanent housing for the homeless. But even supporters
have criticized the agency's tough eligibility standards and its
use of hotels and the Emergency Assistance Unit to provide
emergency shelter for homeless families.
The Emergency Assistance Unit was never intended to provide
temporary shelter, but for years families have stayed there for
more than one night while waiting to be placed in other quarters,
becoming the focal point of a long-running court battle between the
city and homeless advocates. As a condition of making the agency
permanent, DiBrienza has insisted that the unit be equipped with
cots and cribs for families waiting to be placed.
But Campbell said that over the past eight months, the agency
has been able to place families in shelters within 20 hours and
therefore has no need for cots and cribs.
Steven Banks, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's Homeless
Family Rights Project, called the Emergency Assistance Unit a de
facto barracks-style shelter for children and their families.
He is one of a handful of advocates who argue the Department of
Homeless Services, created with workers from the city's Human
Resources Administration, should be dismantled, saying it has
failed in its mission to move people out of the system and into
permanent housing.
About 5,000 families, including about 7,000 children, and about
7,000 single adults stay in shelters in the city on any given
night, officials said.
Union leaders also give the agency low marks, saying they never
supported its creation because they knew it would mean a loss of
jobs for city employees. In 1994, the agency had 3,000 workers; now
it it has 2,170. In addition, the Giuliani administration plans cut
the agency's budget by $20 million to $370 million.
The city has been contracting with nonprofit groups to take over
shelters and services for the homeless since the 1980s.
WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast of
hundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await President
Clinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road city
of Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.
The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,
however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling since
last winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detail
of a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 years
of Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation's
future.
For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tour
lie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, event
consultations and back-room skull sessions . It's all the work of a
temporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, security
agents, communications experts, transportation specialists,
physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent months
to plan the presidential trip to China.
There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to be
worked out, starting with the basic question of just how should the
Leader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away from
the office?
Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the office
along in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magic
carpet. It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300
an hour - not including the crew of 26 - can move the essential
functions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to
virtually anywhere else on the planet.
In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow Air
Force One on the trip as a standby.
In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have his
own physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room's
worth of medical gear and supplies.
The president will take along his own car, too - an armored
black limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet,
along with a pair of sport utility vehicles used by the U.S. Secret
Service agents who protect the president. He will also take his own
private telephone company - banks of switching and transmission
gear must be transported and set up days ahead of time for each
stop he'll make - so that the president can talk with international
leaders or key U.S. officials anywhere around the world without
worrying that someone else might be listening.
Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president will
also take along enough personnel to staff a good-sized corporation.
In addition to hundreds of presidential assistants, Secretary of
State Madeleine Albright, Secretary of Treasury Robert Rubin and
National Security Adviser Samuel Berger will be along with key
members of their staffs in tow.
Scores of other administration officials with expertise in
everything from trade and environmental matters to arms control and
international law will also be along on the trip, many of them
traveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.
It isn't yet clear how large the presidential entourage to China
will be, but some 800 people went along with him to Africa last
spring, in addition to 200 journalists and media technicians.
The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller - though
the press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa -
largely because many of the American corporations that sent
executives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.
Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agents
sometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-be
assailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensive
security effort.
When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of Cape
Town in South Africa last March, for instance, local security
agents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,
canvassed the city welding shut manhole covers along possible
routes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenue
of attack and also sending out the message that a tight security
net had been cast across the seaside city.
Secret Service agents typically inspect the sites of
presidential visits weeks in advance, often using a video camera to
record every place and path on the presidential journey. Then they
scrutinize the tape to make sure that every building air duct, door
or hallway has been secured against possible assassins or bombers.
Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theatre, scripted,
directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identified
by the White House.
Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try to
redefine American impressions and to show that his policy of
engaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,
is helping to foster change.
With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to do
in China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristic
of hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast country
that are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-run
economy.
Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, in
concert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,
China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from the
depths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.
Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unity
and achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vast
potential for the future.
Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,
built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.
Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit - the terra-cotta
warriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stock
exchange in Shanghai - there are dozens more his advance team
considered, surveyed and later rejected.
Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control a
nine-day tour through the world's most populous country. The best
laid plans, indeed, can go awry.
When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop in
Ghana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a million
people turned out to listen to him speak. At one point, the crowd
surged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence. Film
footage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move back
dominated television coverage of the day's events, to the
consternation of White House spin doctors.
It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who have
insisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in front
of the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.
Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's Liberation
Army beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutally
crushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House message
shop might dream up. The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.
Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advance
team.
NEW YORK Like pilgrims at a sacred site, Dot Garabrant and her
friend Sadie Ciganeck stood outside the Lower East Side Tenement
Museum on Orchard Street, pointing to a collage of old-time
pictures of women in long dresses and fancy hats. The two had just
finished reading a novel about old New York something about a
woman who hailed from a line of healers. They had read the book.
Now it was time to do the city.
One hundred years after what was most likely an ordinary day in
the newly consolidated city, New York is marking its birthday this
weekend with scores of events across town. Unlike the big bashes of
past years the Bicentennial with its flotilla of elegant tall
ships, or the Statue of Liberty's century celebration with its
dazzling and deafening blast of fireworks in the harbor this
birthday was low-key and spread out.
The actual anniversary of the city's consolidation was on New
Year's Day, but organizers thought the summer's first weekend would
provide a natural opportunity to herald both history and warm
weather by piggybacking onto the many events that always take place
this time of year.
Marie Salerno, the president of NYC 100, which has organized a
yearlong series of events to mark the consolidation of the five
boroughs into Greater New York, said this weekend's idea was to
promote local pride. And if the neighborhood groups brought the
cake, she said, her group would light the candles with a
simultaneous five-borough fireworks show.
The weekend's theme had caught the fancy of Rafael Bueno, a
poet, philosopher and prime mover behind the gallery and its
adjacent community garden. Wearing tails and a ruffled shirt, he
was scruffily formal for a show at the gallery, an official
Centennial event. In the garden, he walked under a leafy canopy of
grape vines he wants to bottle the first Bronx vintage, he said.
He would also like to see the borough become to Latin Americans and
indigenous people what Harlem is for African Americans.
In Queens, history was on the march. So was science, home repair
and even Danielle Steel, as library workers carried boxes of books
from the old public library to the new Flushing branch Saturday
morning. Most people lining the eight-block parade route were
unaware of any real connection to the city's centennial. This was
just their chance to celebrate their own neighborhood, which
sometimes feels like a stepchild.
The neighborhood, like its library, has grown over the years,
and both reflect the rich mix of people who have come to call this
place home. The library collection includes items in 30 languages.
Videotapes and best-selling novels are the big favorites, although
Joanna Almeda said she thought of finding a book about how Queens
and Manhattan were united.
Which is not how some folks feel in Staten Island, where a
secessionist sentiment still smolders. Linda Gregori, 53, thinks
they never should have built the Verrazano Narrows Bridge, which
has joined her island to Brooklyn since 1964, never mind what
happened in 1898. It brought too much traffic, people and crime.
A century ago, that was the fear of Brooklynites who resisted
the city's consolidation amid fears that their bucolic town's charm
would vanish forever.
She had come early to the park to enjoy some peace and quiet.
The whir of cars zipping overhead on the bridges provided a lulling
comfort. She is also at ease with the idea that Brooklyn prospered
after joining the city.
She planned to go to Manhattan later in the day to see what
birthday events she would run into. She had already celebrated in
her own way on Friday.
Nearby, a parks worker watered a lawn with a view of spans and
skyscrapers. On a shaded cobblestone walk, a fashion photographer
clicked away at a model who kept a cool expression while wearing a
winter coat and scarf.
Waves of weary and hopeful immigrants arrived in this city to do
just that. Dave Creary, whose mother brought him from Jamaica when
he was 6, was amazed at the variety of people who have settled in
the city.
On Friday afternoon, he was high on his neighborhood leaning
over a balcony at the Panorama of New York City, a scale model of
the five boroughs inside the Queens Museum. He was searching for
his Queens Village house, which was somewhere between Kennedy
Airport and the rows of identical homes. The city was laid out
before him: the cluster of red-brick buildings near the sands of
Coney Island, the tiny bridges stitching together the metropolis,
and the thicket of towers crammed into Manhattan.
Like most New Yorkers, he had driven past the museum without
ever having gone inside. He was too busy working, until his uncle,
who was visiting from London, talked him into a day trip. Creary
looked at the model city, awed by its size. To him, however, urban
progress was measured not by soaring towers but by much smaller
details.
On Orchard Street, the restoration went back a bit further as
the road was paved with cobblestones. On Saturday morning, Larry
Shapiro and his wife, Patricia Sousa, turned the corner from Broome
Street hoping to see the other vintage sights on the Centennial
Block. But the gates of most stores were still down, and some would
not go up at all, since the Jewish shopkeepers would be observing
the Sabbath.
Still, they had come to the street to pay their respects to
tradition and heritage on the Lower East Side. The faces had
changed, but some things were the same.
The title of top driver in the rough-edged world of stock car
racing has always carried with it an additional designation:
target.
Win too often and there will be as many fans hating you as
loving you. There will be drivers who will not hesitate to run you
into a wall and others who might even cheat to keep you from
winning a race.
Over the years, in a sport where loyalty to individual drivers
possesses a certain cult quality, Dale Earnhardt has played the
role of champion and villain, as have Bill Elliott and Darrell
Waltrip.
Jeff Gordon, who who is the pole-sitter for the Pocono 500 on
Sunday, is the latest driver to live out this weird dual existence the best and the booed.
Gordon's accomplishments on the track two NASCAR championships
in the last three years, 32 career triumphs are unmatched. His
earnings are unrivaled. And so his detractors are legion. Not
surprisingly, then, his misfortunes also now tend to be colored by
intrigue.
Two weeks ago, Gordon was leading a race in Richmond when he was
crashed into from behind and was unable to finish the race, much to
the delight of the fans who stood and cheered wildly as Gordon's
smoking car skidded to a stop.
A week ago, he raced to a nearly insurmountable lead at the
Michigan Speedway when a driver tossed something out his window and
onto the track, forcing a caution and costing Gordon his lead and,
ultimately, the race.
Is it a coincidence? Maybe. Is it the result of a design driven
by dislike or jealousy? Maybe.
Indeed, it is not unreasonable to wonder if anyone has ever felt
the sting of being a hated virtuoso more acutely than Gordon. In a
sport that began as recreation for moonshiners running liquor
across the South, Gordon stands out as unusual.
Gordon's resume is not standard issue. He is a middle-class kid
from California who moved to Indiana as a teen-ager. He is 26 years
old and never really had to pay the dues that other drivers did
(Earnhardt didn't start driving on the NASCAR circuit until he was
28). He is glib and does not speak with an accent, whereas many of
the drivers have a Southern drawl. He has the face and personality
of a Boy Scout, rather than a roughneck.
And perhaps most important, Gordon has ascended to the top of
the racing world just as the sport has begun to expand its reach
and reap greater economic reward finding popularity among a
wider, wealthier population, acquiring an appeal as a marketing
engine for nontraditional sponsors and paying its champions
millions instead of thousands.
Gordon is the face of that expanding NASCAR universe. With a
wife who pins scripture verses to his dashboard, Gordon is the
sport's singular talent and greatest marketing vehicle. Last year
he made $6.5 million in endorsements, promoting, among other
things, milk and toothpaste.
Gordon began racing on Go-Kart tracks in Vallejo, Calif., when
he was 5 years old. He immediately showed exceptional ability and
an intense drive to win. When he was 13, Gordon's stepfather, John
Bickford, an auto-parts manufacturer, moved the family to Indiana,
where Gordon had the chance to race professionally as a teen-ager.
After years of dominating the Indiana dirt tracks, at the
relatively young age of 21, Gordon made the jump to NASCAR.
For Gordon, who is credited with an otherworldly kind of
aggressive precision as a driver, the timing of his arrival was
perfect. He entered NASCAR as it was beginning to establish itself
as a mainstream sport. At the time, NASCAR was expanding its
schedule and its national television deal with major and cable
networks was relatively new. Also, several new race tracks were
being built.
Attendance at NASCAR events leaped 60 percent from 1990 to 1995,
and its purses now can exceed $5 million for a single race.
NASCAR's marketing staff, too, has got much savvier about selling
the sport, a development that has led to the establishment of theme
restaurants and merchandising outlets in malls across the country.
Gordon, riding the front of the sport's new wave, won eight
races in 1995, his second full year, and 10 more in 1996.
Last year, he became only the second driver to win the $1
million bonus awarded to any racer who wins three of NASCAR's most
prestigious events.
In defense of their heroes, Gordon's army of detractors has
mounted an array of assaults: anti-Jeff Gordon T-shirts and signs
that carry similar messages. Internet home pages such as NASCAR
Fans Against Jeff Gordon (there were 10 such home pages at last
count) carry caricatures and musings that run from the profane to
the absurd to the silly.
While Gordon has his own sizable following he boasts a fan
club of more than 20,000 members there seem to be many more fans
who find satisfaction in rooting against him. Like the drivers,
they, too, are frustrated by Gordon's weekly dominance. And when he
was passed last week in Michigan, the fans roared as loudly as the
fans at Richmond after his wreck there.
In the 1970s, Waltrip was a brash young driver who openly
challenged anyone to beat him. In the 1980s and early 1990s, it was
Earnhardt and Elliott's quick rise to prominence that led to
resentment. But however much people disliked their steady success,
the drivers were always considered authentic members of racing's
rowdy fraternity. And no one then was making the kind of money
Gordon is now: he has earned roughly $15 million in purses in his
career, slightly more than $1 million this year alone.
Gordon said the boos are part of the high price of success. As,
too, are the tactics of the other drivers. Gordon, who stops short
of accusing other drivers of willfully trying to harm him or his
chances, does note that other drivers, even when it might be to
their advantage, almost never join him in the draft.
Predictably, Gordon's quick rise to the top of the sport has
provoked a regular swirl of rumors around the garages, from the
outrageous to the comic: his tires are pressure-coated with a
microscopically ground titanium dust; his car uses rocket fuel; he
and NASCAR officials have conspired to script how the racing season
would unfold, with Gordon winning his third championship in
dramatic fashion in the fall.
Gordon said there is no credence to the rumors. But he can sort
of understand the ones about his car. For one thing, it is almost
always the fastest. Another is that his team was caught with
illegal hubs a few years ago.
If people don't like him because of his success, Gordon said, he
can live with that. If they don't like him because of who he is,
well, he will find a way to live with that, too.
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. Kathleen Devigne moved here 15 years ago
from the Bronx, where her fear of crime had kept her close to home.
In this bustling downtown of wide sidewalks and plentiful shops,
she found an ideal blend of city convenience and suburban peace of
mind.
But now Mrs. Devigne, an 83-year-old widow who never learned to
drive, says she is facing a new threat to her independence: the
closing of the last neighborhood supermarket.
But to the store's customers, many of them elderly women like
Mrs. Devigne who do not drive and depend on stores within walking
distance, the store's closing meant the loss of one more bit of
freedom.
Though Mrs. Devigne (pronounced de-VEEN) broke two wrists in a
fall last year, she is healthy and now plans to walk a little
farther to shop at the Food Emporium a mile from her home.
White Plains has long been a destination for many elderly Bronx
residents who wanted to live in what they considered to be a safer
place where driving a car was not a necessity, said White Plains
Planning Commissioner Michael Graessle. The city is the seat of
Westchester County government and home to two big malls, the
Westchester and the Galleria. Shoppers and workers make the city's
population swell to an average of 250,000 during the day, but
according to the 1990 census, only 48,718 people live in White
Plains. More than 20 percent, or 10,147, are 60 or older, and 3,139
are widowed, Graessle said.
That percentage of people 60 or older compares with 16.8 percent
of the population nationally and 17.7 percent statewide.
In downtown White Plains, the percentage of elderly residents is
even higher, with about 22 percent of the 11,392 residents 60 years
old or older.
The AP's closing has led some elderly White Plains residents to
urge city officials to lure another supermarket to buy the space.
The AP has put its building up for sale, though store officials
declined to reveal the asking price. George Gretsas, the executive
officer of White Plains, said that the asking price was $4 million,
far more than the $1.5 million that the city's assessors had
estimated the building was worth and too inflated a price for
another supermarket.
Before the AP closed, a CVS drug store, a Woolworth's, a bank
and a couple of delicatessens, all within four blocks of one
another, had closed during the past year. Macy's led off the
downtown's decline two years ago, when it shut its Main Street
store after 47 years and moved into the nearby Galleria Mall.
Some of the stores closed to make way for a 24-screen movie
theater and retail complex that is supposed to be the centerpiece
of a plan to revitalize downtown White Plains. That complex does
not include a supermarket, however.
Politicians and store owners have scrambled to insure that no
one is left without access to food. The AP began a free shuttle
bus from its closed store to the Food Emporium, which it also owns,
twice a week from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., said Andrew Carrano, AP's
vice president for marketing and corporate affairs.
In addition, Stop and Shop, another supermarket, is running a
shuttle twice a week along North Broadway, White Plains' leafy
version of the Grand Concourse. It takes customers to the store in
North White Plains, where the bus will wait for an hour before the
return trip, Mayor Joseph Delfino said in a letter he sent to 3,500
residents of the downtown neighborhood.
NEW YORK Larry Douglas, if that really was his name, had been
a fixture in local politics for years. But at his funeral last
week, only about two dozen people showed up to pay their respects.
And some of them joked that they went just to make sure he was
really dead.
Not out of malice, but because Douglas had a penchant for
telling tall tales, especially of the political sort. While he had
developed a reputation as a brilliant political consultant in the
1980s, he also became widely known as someone who had a lot of
trouble sticking to the truth.
He had been involved in mayoral and presidential elections and
was described by friends as an eloquent and well-connected
political analyst. But he also had a habit of disappearing for
years at a time once, his friends said, he fled to Israel to
avoid federal tax-evasion charges.
When he died on June 12 at Coney Island Hospital, he had been
living under an assumed name, Zachary Phillips, in a tiny apartment
in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, for nearly two years. Most of the
people he had clinked glasses with at political gatherings and
plotted campaign strategies with did not even know he was in the
city.
Kenneth Fisher, a city councilman from Brooklyn, who helped
identify Douglas' body at the funeral home last week, said Douglas
apparently had not worked at all in the last two years and died in
poverty. He said the mourners at Douglas' funeral a variety of
politicians, political consultants and reporters took up a
collection to help pay for the funeral.
Fisher, who said Douglas had been living with a girlfriend named
Alice in Brighton Beach, said Douglas made up the name Zachary
Phillips because he wanted to live in anonymity. But other
acquaintances at the funeral said they believed that although the
name was purely concocted, Phillips was his real last name.
Douglas ran Fisher's first campaign for City Council in 1991. He
coordinated hundreds of volunteers for Mayor Edward Koch's 1981
re-election campaign and Mayor David Dinkins' campaign in 1989. He
also helped run Vice President Al Gore's 1988 bid for the
Democratic presidential nomination. He advised dozens of
congressional, judicial and City Council campaigns into the early
1990s.
But people in political circles had started to question his
credibility as early as 1981.
NEW YORK A young woman whose body was found floating in the
East River 14 years ago is believed to have been killed by a couple
who were angered when she refused to work for them as a prostitute,
police said Saturday.
The couple, Arthur and Donna Kinlaw, were charged on Friday with
the murder of the woman, who was never identified, police said. Lt.
Steven Boldis, commanding officer of the Bronx Cold Case Squad,
said the Kinlaws ran a prostitution ring in the Hunts Point section
of the Bronx until fleeing New York more than a decade ago, when he
said they set out on a life of robbery, prostitution, burglary,
forgery and welfare fraud that spanned seven states. They were
arrested while in jail in El Centro, Calif., where they were
serving an eight-month sentence for welfare fraud, Boldis said.
The woman was discovered in the East River off Hunts Point on
May 3, 1984. Police said that when she was pulled from the water,
the short, black-haired woman was wearing a ripped blouse and blue
jeans, and appeared to have been bludgeoned and suffocated. Her
hands had been tied behind her back with scraps from her blouse,
and other sections were found stuffed down her throat, said Sgt.
Nick Vreeland, a police spokesman.
There were few clues, and the case was soon closed. But in
April, welfare fraud investigators in California told investigators
in New York that a woman whose name was being used as an alias by
Mrs. Kinslaw said she had information about a murder, police said.
The informer said that the dead woman's first name was Linda,
that she was likely of Italian-American origin and may have lived
with her grandmother in either Brentwood or Bay Shore on Long
Island, police said. Detectives narrowed down the possible victims
to the body found in the East River in 1984.
With that statement and other evidence later gleaned by
detectives, the police concluded that Kinlaw, 46, and his
39-year-old wife met the woman at a club called Blackberry Jam in
Bay Shore sometime in 1984. There, the Kinlaws, who have nine
children from their 20-year marriage, apparently befriended the
woman and then tried to convince her to become a prostitute in the
Hunts Point area, police said. They added that the couple had been
known in the area as running a prostitution ring at the time.
After several days of resisting their offer, the woman
threatened to go to police, according to detectives. The couple
then beat and suffocated her, later taking her body to Hunts Point
and dumping it in the river, police said.
WIMBLEDON, England Uneasy lies the head that doesn't wear this
crown: from crass teen-agers to cranky veterans, everybody's
clamoring to be the queen of Wimbledon this year.
Continuing a tradition that began, to some degree, here at
Wimbledon when the 15-year-old Lottie Dodd won the title in 1887,
women's tennis has become the proving ground of a bevy of teen-age
celebrities. Each of them is intent on looking and playing like no
one else in the world, especially their precursors, and each of
them is already famous regardless of whether she has actually won a
tournament.
The undisputed monarch of the bunch is a 17-year-old Swiss girl
who just recently began falling for boys instead of horses. Will
Martina Hingis put business before pleasure and defend in 1998 the
second of the three Grand Slam titles she monopolized in 1997?
There are 127 others, including five of Hingis' teen-age
compatriots among the top 30 players in the world, hoping she
won't.
Although Hingis admits she fears being beaten by her
understudies far more than she frets about facing her elders, Graf
is one veteran whose designs on the 1998 Wimbledon title are all
the more passionate because she recognizes that this could be her
last campaign on these lawns. Also, Graf is the only player,
veteran or not, to own a 5-1 record against Hingis that includes
two victories at this Grand Slam event. If Hingis and Graf, a
seven-time champion, weather the seven-round collision course, they
would meet in the final.
It would not exactly be a clash of innocence and experience.
These days tennis breeds millionaires, not innocents. More
intriguingly, it would be a clash of now meets then, of Hingis'
slick all-court calculations against Graf's stubborn baseline
power.
Graf, the 29-year-old German who was ousted from her perch atop
the ranking 15 months ago by Hingis, has accumulated nearly as many
surgeries as Grand Slam titles she holds 21 but she refuses to
surrender her sport to the youngsters. This spring Graf swore she
would retire if she encountered one more physical setback. Instead,
straight from cursing out every official who worked the lines
during her petulant loss to Kournikova at Eastbourne on Wednesday,
she is here, steeling herself to outlast the competition and seeded
fourth on the strength of her past laurels despite an actual
rank of 91st.
Another Grand Slam champion on the rebound is Monica Seles, the
24-year-old Yugoslav-turned-Floridian who made a rousing sprint to
the French Open final. That Seles counts no Wimbledon titles among
her collection of nine Grand Slam victories makes her bid almost as
urgent, and equally sentimental, as Graf's.
These are two outspoken generations of women's tennis merging
just in time for Wimbledon. With the possible exception of Venus
and Serena Williams, siblings who have already announced a dual
plot to dethrone the Swiss incumbent, the sisters who belong to
this sorority are anything but sweet and sisterly toward one
another.
Blithely self-aggrandizing is more like it, and that's making
for some scintillating feuds and rivalries, along with a potboiler
atmosphere: Hingis called Graf and her contemporaries a bunch of
past-their-prime players; Serena Williams slammed a ball at Sanchez
Vicario at Roland Garros and laughed it off; Kournikova has made it
clear that she doesn't just preen better than the rest, she wants
to play better, too.
It wasn't so long ago that Hingis was just a 14-year-old
Wimbledon wannabe who took one horrified look at the identity of
her first-round opponent in 1995, the top-ranked Graf, and decided
that maybe she didn't really want to go to Wimbledon after all.
Back then, Graf practically held the mortgage on Wimbledon and
every other Grand Slam. Not anymore. Hingis, a first-round victim
to the Graf in 1995, grew up and grew bold.
And now nobody is intimidated by anybody and everybody is using
vengeance as a motivator. The old ones want to teach the young ones
a lesson, and the young ones want to vanquish the old ones. Every
player wants what Hingis has: the self-esteem that accompanies this
Wimbledon trophy. 
SHANGHAI, China Rebuffing international pressure to
compromise, Chinese authorities instead chose to escalate their
dispute with the director of a classic Chinese opera that is
scheduled to open in New York City next month as the centerpiece of
the Lincoln Center Festival.
The authorities, insisting that the world see a version that
Chinese officials are used to, have required extensive revisions to
the opera's script. Last week, they blocked shipment of the
production's sets, props and costumes, now all stuck at Shanghai
International Airport. They defended that move by saying the items
will be needed as the opera is revised.
Raymond Burghardt, U.S. consul general in Shanghai, said he had
urged the Shanghai authorities to allow the production's shipment
to proceed to New York on Sunday, and expressed the hope that the
dispute could be resolved in time for the opening on July 7.
Chen, saying he was distressed by the thought that the
production might be foiled, stressed that he was willing to make
minor adjustments to his production in order to compromise with the
authorities. But he is not willing to completely restage the show,
as the officials are now demanding.
In principle, the Shanghai Bureau of Culture might have little
say over a production to be staged in the United States, and funded
by the Lincoln Center Festival.
In practice, Communist Party bureaucrats have wielded decisive
control over artistic matters for years and are reluctant to give
it up. Many movie directors, authors and actors in China know about
interference by officials at the Ministry of Culture, still a
redoubt of ultraconservative officials.
Chen, a native of China who moved to the United States in 1987,
said he was warned by friends that the typical method of staging a
show in China includes inviting political leaders to a rehearsal
and making whatever changes they ask for, large or small, even if
the politicians understand nothing of opera.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
YANKS-LEDE Two of the most eccentric owners in baseball will
go at each other again, when Ted Turner's Braves and George
steinbrenner's Yankees meet this week during a 4-game series.
Baseball people talk about both owners, their highs/lows and what
they have meant to the game. (Rosenberg, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution).
YANKS-COLUMN All baseball eyes turn to series between Braves
and Yankees this week because it's about the best baseball has to
offer until playoffs. (Hummer, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).
SHOOTING Feature from the National Shooting Championships at
Wolf Creek Olympic Shooting Complex near Atlanta. Luke Shank, 18,
is a Navy shooter from Indiana who competes in air rifle
competition on Monday. He placed fourth at the junior nationals
last year and has overcome an eye injury that caused him to have to
switch the eye he used to sight with. (Rosen, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution).
NEW YORK Down a cascade of steel steps in the half-basement
Chinese video store in Elmhurst, Queens, Shi Jiehua methodically
glued labels onto black plastic cases one recent afternoon as a
Chinese soap opera murmured on a small television.
This shoe box of a store has become a gathering place for some
of the greatest Chinese opera stars part of a growing diaspora of
opera performers who have come to the United States from China,
often initially to perform, but then to stay.
They come seeking freedom for themselves and opportunity for
their children. But unlike many artists from Western countries
whose celebrity follows them here, the performers from China find
themselves plunged into the austere world of new Chinese
immigrants, a world of menial jobs, Spartan housing and little
contact beyond the immigrant community.
For many Chinese, the sight of Shi Jiehua shelving videotapes or
Cai Qingling delivering takeout food is akin to the notion of
Luciano Pavarotti scrubbing pots at a pasta joint in Little Italy.
But virtually no Chinese opera star in this country can survive on
performing and teaching alone.
Still, in the last 10 years, a network of opera societies,
workshops and private patrons has evolved in cities across the
United States, especially in New York. Amateur opera buffs can
study with master teachers. Legendary singers from Shanghai, here
at the invitation of local Chinese arts centers, spend afternoons
mingling with opera greats who have immigrated. One group scours
China for talented performers, trying to lure them to live in the
United States.
Some wealthy Chinese here, evoking the practice in the late Ming
Dynasty of having individual opera troupes attached to great
households, even sponsor stars from China to come and sing for them
and their friends in intimate gatherings.
Year after year, opera stars from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou
and dozens of other cities across China filter into the United
States, some through performing-artist visas, others through
defecting from visiting opera companies. So great is the influx of
talent that, unlike anywhere in China, New York regularly has
performances of China's four major opera traditions by stars of the
first magnitude.
In Flushing, Queens, Agnes Ho and her husband, Steve, have
turned their red-brick house into a nerve center of Chinese opera.
A dining table is heaped with immigration documents for opera
singers, grant applications to federal and state arts agencies,
invitations to opera troupes in China. A basement walled in mirrors
serves as a practice room.
From here, Mrs. Ho, 61, runs the Tung Ching Chinese Center for
the Arts, a nonprofit group that has sponsored more than 50 opera
stars to come to live in the United States.
Behind the brick house, Mrs. Ho and one of her boarders, a newly
arrived opera performer named Xie Dong, opened a shed filled with
costumes and props. Silk and satin robes, densely layered with gold
and silver embroidery, sat on shelves carefully labeled with the
names of individual operas. A steamer trunk overflowed with swords
in elaborate scabbards. Mrs. Ho bought the collection, which she
thinks may be the largest of its kind, with money she earned here
as an insurance agent.
Last year, a 40-member opera troupe from the northern Chinese
city of Shenyang went to Berkeley, Calif., to perform. Three of the
leading performers, all award winners in China, fled the troupe and
sought help from Mrs. Ho. All three now live in Queens, around the
corner from the Hos' house.
Not far away, on two Saturdays each month, the annex of St.
George's Episcopal church in Flushing echoes with the wail of the
kundi, the bamboo flute that is at the center of kunqu (pronounced
KUN-CHEW) opera. Slumped in a leather armchair one recent Saturday,
Chen waited for his students at the Kunqu Society workshop.
On that day, 20 members of Shanghai's most prominent opera
troupe were in Los Angeles to perform; as pictures of the massacre
filled television screens at the troupe's hotel, eight of them
sought asylum. Nearly all of them are now in New York.
The workshop in Flushing offers six hours of courses embracing
the elements of kunqu opera first flute, then singing, followed
by movement and acting and concluding with percussion and all
classes are led by kunqu masters who learned their art in China.
All four principal genres of Chinese opera can be seen in New
York: Cantonese yue, popular in Hong Kong and Guangdong province;
Beijing, now known as the national opera form; Shanghai yue, heard
predominantly in central China, and kunqu, the most prized among
many cognoscenti.
At the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th
century, kunqu was gradually displaced by the less sophisticated
Beijing opera, which embraced showy acrobatic and martial scenes
that proved more popular to less literate audiences. Today, Beijing
opera receives the most government support in China.
Earlier this month, Ms. Shi returned from an opera tour in
Austria. While she was gone, Cai and Chen performed at a gala opera
with two visiting stars from Shanghai before several hundred kunqu
aficionados at the Taipei Theater, on the Avenue of the Americas at
49th Street in Manhattan.
ORLANDO, Fla. With record high temperatures and a prolonged
drought, Florida has been struck by at least 137 wildfires that in
just the last three weeks have burned more than 49,000 acres in 34
counties and injured at least 14 people.
With the situation worsening, President Clinton declared the
entire state a disaster area on Friday, opening the door for
emergency assistance. The declaration, which had originally applied
to only eight counties in the hardest hit areas, in northern and
central Florida, enables fire victims to seek low-cost federal aid.
At least 137 fires in 34 of Florida's 67 counties since May 25
have caused an estimated $13 million in losses statewide.
Earlier in the week, a fire forced the evacuation of 1,100
people from Waldo, near Gainesville in northern Florida. But by
Friday evening, cars were returning to Waldo under clear skies and
a lingering smell of smoke.
Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDT
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
EDT Monday-Friday.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404 526-5456.
CLINTON-TRIP When he visits China beginning next week,
virtually everything President Clinton does every step he takes,
every place he goes, every bite he eats will have been
choreographed weeks in advance by a horde of advance men and women
who will have scheduled every second of his trip. After spending
hours studying videotapes of the routes Clinton will take, Secret
Service agents will have ensured that manhole covers are sealed and
air ducts blocked to prevent potential assassins from planting
bombs. His armor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead.
Hotels will have been comandeered for the president and his
entourage. Detailed briefing books will have been prepared for him,
providing classified information on the ranking officials with whom
he will meet. Phone banks will have been put in place for the
traveling White House press. Sophisticated electronics gear will
have been installed so the media can beam images back to the United
States. In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked around
the clock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to make
sure the whole thing goes off without a hitch. (Deans, Cox News
Service).
IRAN-SOCCER TEHRAN, Iran The U.S. plays Iran in the World
Cup soccer tournament Sunday. Except when Iraq is in crisis, Iran
is probably the biggest story in the Middle East right now. There
were huge street celebrations when Iran qualified for the
tournament. People said they bordered on political outbursts, and
there was concern among Iran's Islamic fundamentalist rulers when
many women celebrants removed their head coverings in violation of
religious dictates. Many other Iranians hope the match will lead to
a normalization of relations between the United States and Iran
after two decades of hostility. (Kaplow, Cox News Service).
LINDER As the GOP's once-certain hold on the House majority
appears to be slipping somewhat, the man in the middle is NRCC
chairman John Linder. (Sherman, Cox News Service).
NORLEANS New Orleans First it was the mardi gras pay-to-ride
float, then the death of the KB drug stores to Rite Aid. Now
Starbucks is about to come in and all the local coffee houses are
shakin in their mocha. Is America's most European city starting to
look more like, well, America? (Rochell, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution).
SAN FRANCISCO At 6 p.m. on a recent Thursday at San Francisco
International Airport, the video monitors blinked a disheartening
message for about 200 United Shuttle passengers waiting to fly to
Los Angeles.
The 5:50, 6 and 6:30 p.m. flights had just been canceled, and
the 6:15, 7 and 7:20 p.m. flights had been delayed. Only two of the
10 flights scheduled for the next three hours were expected to
depart on time.
Now, more than passengers are giving low marks to the airport,
the fifth-busiest in the nation and seventh-busiest in the world,
handling 40 million passengers and 428,000 flights a year. In its
annual rankings, the Federal Aviation Agency recently listed the
San Francisco airport as the second-worst for delays, behind Newark
International Airport.
Then, two weeks ago, The Sunday Times of London reported that an
international pilots' group had placed the San Francisco airport
among the 15 most dangerous landing strips in the world. The
newspaper said its account was based on a leaked copy of a report
by the International Federation of Airline Pilots Associations at
its annual meeting in April.
A big part of the airport's poor ranking, he said, comes from
the fact that it conducts simultaneous operations on its two
parallel runways, which are only 750 feet apart. Under federal
regulations, runways must be at least 4,200 feet apart for landing
in foul weather.
Wilson said delays and difficult landing conditions resulted
from the old runways, which were designed in the 1920s for DC-10
aircraft, which have wingspans about half as wide as today's jumbo
jets. The length of the runways poses no problem, he said.
But if fog rolls in in the morning, the airport must cancel at
least half of its flights, delaying all arrivals and departures for
the rest of the day. Plans for expanding the distance between the
runways have been under way for more than a year. An airport
consultant began a study early this month designed to reduce
delays, ease the impact of noise on the community and make the
runways at least 4,300 feet apart.
The project would require the airport to fill in 400 acres of
the San Francisco Bay, with a cost that could exceed $1 billion.
The work, which could begin in 2002, would be financed by airport
bonds, to be backed by the city and San Francisco County.
Cumulus clouds will develop into isolated afternoon
thunderstorms Sunday in interior New England as low pressure which
has brought the recent unsettled weather lifts slowly offshore. Low
clouds and chilly onshore winds will prevail along the coast from
Maine to Cape Cod, though coastal areas should be spared the
showers that will plague the interior.
Sultry air will dominate in the Middle Atlantic States. High
pressure aloft will provide sunshine from central New York to
eastern South Carolina, though a few thunderstorms could develop
over the Appalachians.
Hot and muggy conditions will continue over much of the
Southeast. Morning low clouds will yield to afternoon sunshine
dimmed at times by cumulus clouds. Clusters of thunderstorms will
develop over the Ohio Valley and move southeastward, bringing
drenching rains to portions of the region. A vigorous jet stream
disturbance will spawn severe thunderstorms in Michigan with hail,
strong winds, and isolated tornadoes. Thunderstorms will also
develop along a cold front from southern Illinois through northern
Arkansas, while pesky showers and cool breezes swirl around low
pressure from Minnesota to eastern Montana.
Elsewhere, searing heat will continue over Texas. Late day
thunderstorms will develop in the northern Rockies as a disturbance
rotates around low pressure aloft. Building warmth will dominate in
the valleys of the Pacific Northwest, while showers dot the peaks
of the Cascades. The Southwest will be sunny and seasonably warm,
with the exception of low clouds along the California coast.
The official start of summer is at 10:03 a.m. ET Sunday, but
astronomy, not meteorology, is the deciding factor. It is then that
the northward trek of the sun's rays across the planet will cease.
At that moment when the sun stood still, the summer solstice had
arrived. For the next six months, the direct rays of the sun will
move inexorably south, culminating in the winter solstice. But
alas, the summer season is the slowest to fade. As a result of the
elliptical shape of the earth's orbit around the sun, the Northern
Hemisphere summer lasts 93 days while winter is 89 days long.
BORDEAUX, France The temperature on the field was 102 degrees,
which meant that the Mexican fans underneath their licensed
sombreros had a big advantage over the Belgian fans brandishing
inflatable red tridents.
But after the last brow had been mopped and the last water
bottle had been drained, neither of their teams would have an
advantage in the Parc Lescure. This World Cup Group E match was one
that neither Belgium nor Mexico could afford to lose, and, as has
often been the case in France this June, neither team lost.
Of the 26 matches played thus far in the finals, 10 have
finished in draws, but what made this 2-2 affair more compelling
than most was that the Mexicans had to rally from a two-goal
deficit to salvage the point that kept them on top of their
difficult group.
The Belgians took their man advantage in the 29th minute, after
Pavel Pardo was given a red card for a tackle from behind on
Belgian defender Vital Borkelmans. In less evangelical times, the
tackle might have earned Pardo only a yellow card, but in the
current climate, it was difficult to find fault with referee Hugh
Dallas' judgment.
The Belgians, prone to imprecise passing and ballhandling
errors, took their time to capitalize, but in the 44th minute they
scored off a corner kick from their Brazilian-born striker Luis
Oliveira. The ball brushed the head of defender Claudio Suarez and
deflected off Marc Wilmots past Jorge Campos.
It was hardly the most aesthetic goal of this tournament, but
then Wilmots, a solidly built 29-year-old who runs more like a
pulling guard than an attacking midfielder, is not known for his
flair. He is known for his efficiency and his power, and three
minutes into the second half, he took control of the ball outside
the Mexican penalty area and essentially bowled over the luckless
Suarez, shoving him out of the way with his left forearm, and
scoring his second goal with a jab of his right foot.
Perhaps it was the heat, perhaps it was the Mexicans' superior
technical skill, but with only 10 men, they began to penetrate the
Belgian defense with more consistency, and when JesusRamirez drove
into the penalty box and was brought down from behind by Belgian
midfielder Gert Verheyen, the Scottish referee immediately awarded
the Mexicans a penalty kick.
But the Mexican players wanted more than a chance to score in
the 55th minute, they wanted a chance to play the rest of this
match on even terms, and before Dallas had a chance to reach into
his pocket, five players had formed an angry wall in front of him
and screamed for a red card. Dallas took his time, but he would
soon grant the Mexican wish.
It was the eighth red card awarded in the last seven matches of
these World Cup finals. But unlike other coaches who have fallen
victim to the new zeal, Leekens declined to cry foul.
When Mexican Captain Alberto Garcia Aspe put that penalty kick
into the lower right corner of the Belgian goal, neither he nor his
teammates were feeling the heat, and on their next serious chance
in the 63rd minute, they would score the equalizer. This goal had
nothing in common with Wilmots' ungainly efforts. It came off a
wonderfully timed left-footed cross from Ramirez that striker
Cuauhtemoc Blanco put past goalkeeper Filip de Wilde with a left
footed volley in mid-air that looked every bit as difficult as it
was.
CLEVELAND Ronald Reagan was voted into the White House the
last year the Yankees won 100 or more games, in 1980. Don Mattingly
never played on a pinstriped team that won 100 games, nor did Dave
Righetti. No easy feat, 100 victories.
But the Yankees of 1998 are already halfway to that benchmark
after beating Cleveland by 5-3 Saturday afternoon as David Wells
pitched eight strong innings. The Yankees have played fewer games
than any other major league team, because of rainouts and the
Yankee Stadium closing, but they became the first to win 50 games
this season. The Atlanta Braves had a 49-24 record as they prepared
to play Montreal Saturday night.
The Yankees have won four of their last eight, their pace
slowing somewhat in the midst of what figures to be the most
challenging two weeks of their season, with games in Baltimore and
Cleveland, with games against the Braves and the Mets, and without
Bernie Williams.
Nevertheless, the Yankees' winning percentage is .746; they
would win 121 games if they continue this pace, which would shatter
the modern-day major-league record of 111 victories. Should they
win 47 of their remaining 95 games less than half they would
finish the season 97-65. A hundred victories seems inevitable,
especially since all elements of the team are functioning
effectively.
With Wells' outing Saturday, the Yankees' pitching rotation has
turned in 17 consecutive starts of five and a third innings or
more; only twice in 39 games since May 6 has a Yankees starter
failed to last five innings.
Wells' performance may have been his best since his perfect game
on May 17. His curveball dived across the strike zone, his fastball
was explosive, his command nearly impeccable. Jorge Posada, the
Yankees' catcher, would set his target, inside or outside, and
Wells would hit it constantly, expertly. Wells allowed two runs,
eight hits, no walks and struck out eight.
The Yankees' offense has sputtered somewhat in the absence of
Williams, and Tino Martinez, the first baseman, has not regained
his stroke since being hit in the back by Baltimore's Armando
Benitez last month. Martinez has said his right shoulder sometimes
feels weak, as he pulls the bat through the strike zone.
But the Yankees manage to find a way, from all corners of their
lineup. With the Yankees down by 1-0, Paul O'Neill opened the
fourth inning with a single. Martinez then pulled a grounder past
first baseman Jim Thome into the right-field corner. Manny Ramirez,
Cleveland's right fielder, fumbled with the ball a bit before
relaying it back to the infield, and O'Neill who appeared to slow
after rounding second scored just ahead of the throw. For
Martinez, it was his first double since May 15, four days before he
was hit by Benitez.
Tim Raines then grounded to second, with Martinez taking third.
Darryl Strawberry, starting his third consecutive game, slammed a
high drive to right field, where Ramirez backed against the wall,
reached up and gloved the ball only to bounce against the fence
and lose control of the ball. Martinez scored easily, and
Strawberry pulled into second with a double,
Strawberry appeared to be limping heavily as he rounded first
and pulled into second. Although he has 10 home runs and produces
runs when he plays, Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager, has been
reluctant to use Strawberry on a regular basis to protect his
surgically repaired left knee.
In the fifth inning, Scott Brosius led off against Cleveland
starter Dave Burba (8-5) by hitting a high fastball it into the
stands in left-center field, an estimated 419 feet. It was the
seventh homer of the season for Brosius.
One out later, Chuck Knoblauch walked and took second when Derek
Jeter reached base on an error by Thome. O'Neill then pulled a
single through the right side of the infield, and Knoblauch raced
home, giving the Yankees a 4-1 lead.
The Yankees' defense has been exceptional all season, and an
errant throw by Jeter in the third inning was the first error by a
Yankees shortstop this season, and only the third error of the year
by Jeter. Before allowing an unearned run Friday, the Yankees'
defense had allowed only one in the previous 185 innings.
The defense helped Wells get through an eighth-inning jam. David
Bell singled to right-center, where Chad Curtis hustled over to
retrieve the ball, and after Bell thought about trying for second
and then fell down stopping, the Yankees nabbed him in a rundown.
Curtis ran down a fly from Kenny Lofton in left-center for the
second out. The Indians scored a single run in the inning, cutting
the Yankees' edge to 4-2.
Mike Stanton, who is appealing the five-game suspension handed
down this week by American League President Gene Budig, thought his
appeal would be heard on Monday. In fact, his hearing has not been
scheduled, and according to a league official, it will not occur
Monday. If Stanton begins to serve the suspension on Wednesday, as
scheduled, then he will miss two games against the Atlanta Braves
and all three games of the interleague series with the Mets.
Della Rocca was instrumental in the revival of what is now known
as Community Mayors of New York and New Jersey and served as its
director. An all-volunteer group based in Brooklyn, it organizes
recreational trips and shows for children and adults with special
needs. Typical events have been visits to Coney Island, the circus
in Manhattan, the New York Aquarium, and the Bronx Zoo.
More recently, he helped create a summer camp for blind children
in Suffern, N.Y., known as Camp Montebello.
A Brooklyn native, he served in Europe in World War II, and,
upon returning, went into the restaurant business begun in 1894 by
his grandparents. Besides running his various restaurants, he was
chairman of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Board,
and he helped found the Fort Greene Civic Center.
The Community Mayors group was a revival of an organization
called the Locality Mayors that was founded in 1875 in Manhattan.
For a time, every block on the Lower East Side had a member,
usually a politician or saloon keeper to whom people would take
their troubles and receive rent money or a Christmas turkey in
return for their votes.
Under the leadership of Louis Zeltner, a newspaperman, the group
became a charity and shed its political associations, but it broke
up after his death decades ago. Della Rocca adopted the idea as a
way to aid the disabled.
He is survived by his wife, Phyllis; a daughter, Shelley Aprea
of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Peter J., of Cranford, N.J.; and two
granddaughters.
Dr. Daniel I. Axelrod, a paleoecologist at the University of
California at Davis who reconstructed the ancient landscapes of the
West by examining plant fossils, died on June 2 at his home in
Davis. He was 87.
Axelrod reported how wet forests slowly turned into Nevada's
deserts over 40 million years of the Earth's cooling and heating
and tracked the migration of plants to places that suited them
better.
Some of Axelrod's most important work came after he retired as a
professor of geology and botany at Davis and became what many
colleges call an emeritus professor, with no teaching to do. Before
long, he won an award as the outstanding researcher at Davis, won
top awards from several national research organizations and
received a Guggenheim fellowship to boot.
Axelrod roamed the world looking at how plants adapt to new
environments, and he came up with ways to account for the migration
of entire forests in response to climate changes.
He documented the evolution of America's grasslands, its central
prairies, the deserts of Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada, and the
zones of thorny thickets called chaparral in the foothills of the
Rockies and the Sierra Nevada.
All this, said Dr. Michael Barbour, a botanist and professor of
environmental horticulture at Davis, was a scope of work achieved
by few botanists. Axelrod created maps showing how plant
communities evolved through most of the Western United States.
For example, Axelrod's collection of tens of thousands of
fossils showed him that the Sierra Nevada were once just gentle
foothills, with slopes rising no more than 2,000 feet. He also
found that the giant redwoods, lately living in California, were
once rooted in Nevada's ancient wet forestland.
Axelrod, who wrote about such topics as dinosaur extinction and
plate tectonics, was a founder of the discipline of paleobotany,
which uses fossils to recreate climates that existed millions of
years ago, said Dr. Jay Quade, director of the Desert Laboratory of
the University of Arizona in Tucson.
Axelrod figured out that today's plants of a dry Nevada evolved
from ancestral plants that lived in central Mexico long ago in a
zone like the Nevada desert of today.
Daniel Isaac Axelrod was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. He received all
his degrees from the University of California at Berkeley, his B.A.
in botany in 1933, and his M.A. and Ph.D., both in botany and
paleontology, in 1936 and 1938.
He served in the Army from 1942 to 1946, winning the Bronze Star
for his work in photographic intelligence in the Philippines.
In 1946, Axelrod joined the University of California at Los
Angeles, moved to the Davis campus in 1967 and became an emeritus
professor there in 1976.
He is survived by his wife, Marilyn Gayler Axelrod; a son, Peter
Axelrod, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Hillary Dion
Gayler, of Davis; a sister, Dorothy Heller Axelrod, of Arcata,
Calif.; and a brother, Walter Axelrod, of Rainbow, Calif.; and one
grandchild.
LYONS, France It is great that the Clinton administration
wants to reconcile with Iran, Alexi Lalas said. He and his U.S.
teammates will shake hands with Iran's players before Sunday's game
and exchange jerseys afterward. But this is the World Cup, and
politics must take a backseat to soccer, he said. Ultimately, it is
more urgent to win the game than to win new friends.
Without a victory over Iran, the United States (0-1) has almost
no chance of advancing to the second round of the World Cup. And
yet anything less would mean disappointment and a failure to match
its accomplishments during the 1994 World Cup. In fact, the
Americans not only need to beat Iran, they will also very likely
need to win by at least two goals, given the tie breaker formula
used to determine which teams advance in soccer's world
championship tournament.
Because his team needs goals, and because it is looking to
relieve the timidity that accompanied its 2-0 loss to Germany last
Monday, Coach Steve Sampson has called for more risk taking and
assertiveness in the team's attack. He may even abandon the 3-6-1
formation, with its lone forward, in favor of two forwards. If so,
he could either start Eric Wynalda and Roy Wegerle up front, or
perhaps start Wynalda with Tab Ramos as a withdrawn forward.
Frankie Hejduk, the world's fastest surfer, will certainly
replace Mike Burns at right wing. Ramos could also replace the
invisible Ernie Stewart as an attacking midfielder. The coach is
holding his intended lineup like a poker hand, revealing nothing.
But some believe Sampson may push David Regis into midfield and
start Lalas as a marking back to counter Iran's imposing
6-foot-4-inch forward, Ali Daei.
A metallurgical engineer from the Azerbaijan region of Iran,
Daei had a father who did not want him to play until he had
graduated from high school. But his mother was sympathetic to her
son's athletic interests.
His mother must have a wonderful eye for talent. Her son now
plays in the prestigious German Bundesliga and has just signed for
next season with Bayern Munich. He is strong in the air and
unafraid of contact. Iran committed 30 fouls in a fearless 1-0 loss
to Yugoslavia, and Daei was whistled nine times. This is why
Sampson may assign Lalas to him, muscle for muscle.
At 6-3, Lalas would also enjoy a considerable height advantage
over many Iranian players, which could come in handy on finishing
corner kicks in front of the opposing goal, where he can be
dangerous. But a different lineup and a different formation will
not matter unless the Americans also bring a new attitude to the
Iran game. Formations don't win games, determined players do.
Sentiment aside, the two countries are still far apart, and
officials are on guard against the possible disruption of politics
and violence. No banners will be allowed inside Gerland Stadium on
Sunday. A Swiss referee has been appointed, a neutral arbiter from
a neutral country.
And when the game is over, Sampson said, he will try to collect
an Iranian jersey, perhaps Daei's, for his 9-year-old son, Brandon.
As one of 14 commanders on the Pittsburgh police force, Ms.
Bryant gets more than her share of opportunities to do things right
the first time. And so do hundreds of other women in blue who
patrol the streets of the nation's 48th largest city.
On a police force of 1,100 officers, 25 percent are women, the
highest percentage of any law-enforcement agency in the United
States and more than twice the average percentage, says a recent
study by the National Center for Women and Policing, a Los Angeles
division of the Feminist Majority Foundation.
The survey, which reflects the composition of 100 agencies in
1997, also found that the Pittsburgh force included the nation's
highest percentage of women in command positions, 37.5 percent. In
addition to Ms. Bryant, whose district has the highest crime rate
in the city, five other women in Pittsburgh are commanders, a rank
just below assistant chief and deputy chief.
Pittsburgh is just one of a number of major cities where crime
rates are steadily falling, and neither Ms. Bryant nor any other
senior official on the force attributes the trend to the large
number of women who are officers. More likely, they agreed, new
community policing techniques and updated technology were helping
the department to turn from a reactive style, largely responding to
911 calls, to a preventive approach.
Nonetheless, Ms. Bryant and other women on the Pittsburgh force
say the skills women bring to the job add vital components to
policing. Women, they say, are more inclined than men to use
communication skills to quell potentially violent situations, and
they can bring an extra sensitivity to situations involving
children and rape victims.
But for all the progress women have made on the Pittsburgh
force, many fear a backslide. A 1976 court order demanding that for
every white man hired, the force had to hire a woman and two
members of minorities, one a man and one a woman, expired in 1991.
Ever since, the number of women and members of minorities joining
the force has slowed. And in a recent lawsuit against the city,
eight white men who failed to get jobs on the force, won
settlements in a reverse discrimination case.
Officials here say the main impediment to recruiting highly
qualified women and men is the strong national economy, which
is enabling private industry to offer higher pay for entry-level
positions to people who would be attracted to a career in law
enforcement. In addition, municipal budget constraints, as
elsewhere, have slowed hiring. McNeilly said he did not expect the
city to replace officers who retired or resigned for more than a
year.
McNeilly and Mayor Tom Murphy said they remained sensitive to
the issue and they vowed to take new approaches to find qualified
women for the force. They said they intended to step up their
recruiting efforts and to focus on women leaving the military as a
likely pool of candidates.
For the time being, at least, Pittsburgh remains a showcase for
women in policing. The survey found that only five other cities Detroit, Miami, Philadelphia, Washington and Toledo, Ohio had
police forces in which women accounted for 20 percent of officers.
In all those cities but Miami, the strong presence of women was
aided by a court order, the survey found. On Miami's force of 2,920
officers, no woman serves in a command position.
By contrast, the survey found that 42 agencies including the
police departments in Nassau County, N.Y., and Newark, N.J., the
state police in New York and New Jersey, and the Port Authority of
New York-New Jersey had fewer than 10 percent female officers in
1997.
As she rose in rank over the years, she said, attitudes slowly
changed as men on the force grew more comfortable with women
because of the skills women brought to the job.
In many situations, Ms. Bryant said, women serve as a soothing
balance to the macho tendencies of male officers, a situation that
is influencing men on the force.
Ms. Bryant, who grew up in a housing project and saw police
officers as people to be feared, conceded that old ways die hard
among some officers. But most men working under her command, she
said, dare not display any signs of discomfort or disrespect.
But the surest sign of progress, she said, may be the blackboard
in the men's room, on which officers scribble complaints and nasty
remarks or so she is told.
HARTFORD, Conn. When George Perry caught his world record
22-pound-6-ounce bass nearly 70 years ago, he won a national
fishing contest sponsored by Field Stream. The fish he pulled
from Montgomery Lake, Ga., in 1932 won him $75. That amount is
$999,925 less than the winners took home at a four-day bass
tournament that concluded Saturday along the banks of the
Connecticut River.
Called the Forrest Wood Open, part of the Wal-Mart FLW Tour, the
contest marked the richest bass-fishing event in history, complete
with elimination rounds, television coverage and enough corporate
sponsors to rival the Olympics. Prizes ranged from $200,000 for
first place in the professional division, which was won by Randall
Hutson of Washburn, Mo., with a five-fish limit weighing in at 8
pounds 6 ounces, to $40,000 for the amateur division, which was won
by Frank Free of Buford, Ga., with a five-fish limit weighing 6
pounds 11 ounces.
In a separate category, bass pro Denny Brauer of Camdenton, Mo.,
gathered the most points and won the right to have his face adorn a
box of Wheaties.
By Friday, after two elimination rounds, only 10 boats and 20
anglers remained from the original field of 300 men. In bass
tournaments, each boat is teamed with a professional and an
amateur, but catches are scored separately. Total daily weight
determines who advances and, ultimately, who wins the top prizes.
Unlike George Perry, who reportedly caught his fish using $4
worth of tackle (including the makeshift boat he assembled with 75
cents worth of scrap lumber), a tournament bass angler lugs enough
gear to warrant a second mortgage.
At precisely 6 o'clock, each boat roared away from the dock,
then wound and twisted its way beneath Bulkeley and Founders
Bridges in downtown Hartford at speeds more suitable for a James
Bond movie than a fishing contest.
Over the next hour, most anglers had settled into their
respective spots. Bass pro Randy Howell of Littleton, N.C.,
relentlessly cast into a single concrete culvert no more than 30
feet wide to eke out two little smallmouth by the 2 p.m. deadline.
He earned $23,000 for his eight-hour shift, but was eliminated from
the next day's competition.
Three boats fished an oxbow in the river called Chapman Pond,
some 30 miles south of Hartford. Among them was an old-time pro
named Basil Bacon of Springfield, Mo.
Bacon carefully made his way along the edge of a submerged weed
bed, methodically slipping a plastic jig into tiny pockets. A
scarlet tananger sang in the woods. Except for the television crew
taping his every move some 30 feet away, it seemed like the perfect
image of bass fishing, far from the hype and endless promotion of
the fishing shows.
An hour passed with no fish taken. An osprey soared into view,
spent a minute surveying the situation, then matter-of-factly
plunged into the pond coming up with a largemouth, weight
undetermined. It flew to a nearby dead tree and promptly ate its
catch.
NEW YORK When the Atlanta Braves roar into Yankee Stadium for
the highly anticipated interleague match between the top teams in
the National and American Leagues Monday night, much may be made of
what the Braves have yet to fix since losing to the Yankees in the
1996 World Series.
The Braves' bullpen has not seemed the same since Jim Leyritz
demystified the Braves' stopper, Mark Wohlers, with one mighty
three-run home run in the '96 Series.
Wohlers, who was on the disabled list last month, has pitched
poorly since coming back, allowing six hits, nine walks and seven
runs in six and two-thirds innings. The struggles were so obvious
that the Braves sent the pitcher to the minors on Friday so he
could work on mechanics with a pitching coach. That leaves the
closer's duties in the hands of the 43-year-old Dennis Martinez,
who has two of the Braves' relatively small total of 17 saves.
But don't expect the Yankees or any team trying to measure its
worth against the Braves to fixate solely on this flaw. Not when
the Braves, already strong because of their starting pitching, have
adroitly filled other holes. Indeed, the Braves come to town
potentially tougher than they were a year ago when they won two of
three games in interleague play against the Yankees.
The Braves' 49-24 record as of Saturday afternoon and .671
winning percentage are second in the major leagues to the Yankees'
marks of 49-17, .742.
The Braves' starters are omnipresent and as effective as ever,
with three consecutive complete-game victories by the rookie Kevin
Millwood, Denny Neagle and the incomparable Greg Maddux in the last
week alone.
For once, though, the starting pitching isn't necessarily the
primary weapon. At least not since Andres Galarraga came on board
and established himself as perhaps the most profitable pickup of
the off-season, as well as a player capable of transforming an
entire offense.
Galarraga, a former Colorado Rockie turned free-agent
acquisition, has spent the season not only bashing the baseball,
but also shattering the notions that he is an over-the-hill player
incapable of compiling big numbers without the aid of the thin air
of mile-high Denver.
Galarraga, 37, who was refused three guaranteed years by the
Rockies, found a home in Atlanta. The first-base replacement for
Fred McGriff has driven in 67 runs, strong evidence that Galarraga
remains more than capable of driving in 145 runs, his average the
last two seasons.
Then there are the home runs. Galarraga has lost nothing in the
transition from high altitude to sea level. Rather, he is making
Turner Field look as cozy as Coors Field, peppering a stadium that
was initially thought to favor pitchers with 11 of his 25 home
runs, all but one farther than 400 feet.
The different look has not been in the explosive offense alone.
Galarraga gives the Braves a right-handed threat in the middle of
an order once top-heavy with left-handed hitters and therefore
vulnerable to left-handed pitchers.
Left-handed relievers could be brought in to force a
switch-hitter like Chipper Jones to his less potent right-handed
side, then dominate left-handed swingers like McGriff and Ryan
Klesko, as the Yankees' Graeme Lloyd did so memorably in the '96
Series. Now Galarraga sits nestled between Jones and Klesko and the
effect is trickling up as well as down.
While Galarraga and shortstop Walt Weiss are the most notable
additions, the Braves also shored up their once questionable
supporting cast, which, like the bullpen, paled in comparison to
the Yankees' waves of onetime all-stars in October 1996.
The Braves still don't have the likes of Darryl Strawberry,
Cecil Fielder and Tim Raines coming off the bench, but they have
added some experience in the form of Gerald Williams, Curtis Pride
and Ozzie Guillen.
Williams, a former Yankee reserve outfielder and onetime regular
in Milwaukee, has played sparingly. But a pair of doubles and two
RBI in a spot start against Florida last week were indicative of
the contributions he and other substitutes are making.
The Braves have not only added offense and depth since last seen
by the Yankees. They eradicated some concerns over the defense up
the middle. Not only did the Braves add the smooth-fielding Weiss,
but they also said goodbye to center fielder Kenny Lofton. The
former Gold Glove winner inexplicably failed to impress afield in
his one season in the National League.
In Lofton's place stands the young Andruw Jones, who first
turned heads when at age 19 he hit two dramatic home runs in Game 1
of the '96 Series.
While these added elements bring a new dimension to a now
entrenched 1990s rivalry, the Yankees will find some things about
the Braves a time-honored continuum, namely Maddux, Tom Glavine and
John Smoltz.
Millwood, Andruw Jones, Javier Lopez and Chipper Jones stand as
proof that the Braves, much like the Yankees, grow quality players
as well as buy them. And like the Yankees' Andy Pettitte, Mariano
Rivera and Derek Jeter, the young Braves show a certain maturity by
welcoming the veterans' input.
After the two games in New York and the two in Atlanta are over,
both clubs will have a measure of how they match up, important
because this is more than an interleague curiosity piece. The
Yankees and Braves are providing hints of what might come in a
World Series rematch many believe is as inevitable as it would be
intriguing.
The world's forests have been under siege since the turn of the
century, but this year has been calamitous. In Canada, Brazil,
Mexico, Central America, Africa, and Indonesia, fires have
destroyed nearly 40 million forested acres, an area as large as New
York state. The easy explanation is El Nino, a perverse weather
system that has flooded some regions but left others bone dry. But
the main culprit, as always, is human activity, chiefly logging,
mining, and agriculture, which dries out the forest by stripping it
bare of trees, leaving even humid tropical rain forests vulnerable
to fire. For that reason, the fires are likely to reoccur, with or
without El Nino, unless something is done to curb mankind's
insatiable appetite for wood.
In that context, there was a small ray of hope in the
announcement last week that a small South American country,
Suriname, had decided to give permanent protection to four million
acres of untouched tropical forests, about one-tenth of the entire
country. Suriname reached its decision at the urging of
Conservation International, an American environmental group that
has set up a private trust fund to help Suriname manage the area.
The group became actively involved in Suriname several years ago,
when Asian timber interests having pretty much stripped their own
countries of marketable hardwoods sought timber rights on 11
million acres of Suriname's forests. Suriname rejected that deal,
and has now put four million of these acres out of reach.
What makes this decision so heartening is that Suriname is a
poor country that might normally have jumped at the quick profits
promised by foreign logging interests. Far richer nations like
Brazil have been unable to resist these blandishments, and Asian
timber interests are even now burrowing deeper into the Amazon rain
forest. At the other end of the economic scale, Guyana, Surname's
destitute neighbor, has opened up two-thirds of its forest mass to
foreign companies.
More than one-half of the world's original tropical forests have
now disappeared, mostly in this century. At present rates of
destruction, half of what is left could vanish in the next 50
years. This depressing prospect has not, however, inspired the
wealthier nations to act constructively. One of the few tangible
products of the 1992 Earth Summit was the Global Environmental
Facility, a multilateral body designed to persuade poor countries
to hang on to their natural assets, rain forests included. But the
United States, which pledged $435 million over five years, is $200
million in arrears.
The task of saving the forests has thus been left to private
conservation groups, whose resources are limited. The very fact
that one of these groups and one small country have joined to save
four million acres might shame Western governments into broader
action.
Church-goers in Woodville, Miss., likely will be hearing for
quite some time about their preacher stripping down to his shorts
and using his toes to maneuver a trophy largemouth bass into an
$18,000 bass tournament payout.
Whitaker literally caught a 12.7-pound bass by the tail to sail
into the winner's seat of the $450,000 Texas Outdoor Adventure
Series tournament, but not before having to use his toes and feet
to free his line, which the fish had wrapped around a stump in
about 14 feet of water.
It started when Whitaker cast a large tequila-colored plastic
worm into a stumpy area Saturday during the second day of the
three-day tournament. He felt the bass take the worm and set the
hook, only to have his line wrapped around a stump by the fish.
When he was unable to free it, he figured the only way he could get
to the fish would be to go in after it.
With Green holding onto Whitaker's boat, Whitaker stripped to
his shorts and went overboard, placing his line between his toes so
he could follow the line down to the fish.
Whitaker managed to loosen the line from the stump and got back
into his boat, but the ordeal was far from over. He suddenly
realized that the fish had wrapped the line around another stump.
So, he jumped back into the lake.
The 12.7-pounder earned Whitaker the biggest prize of the
tournament, but it wasn't the only fish caught by Whitaker that
claimed a prize.
On Friday, Whitaker caught a 7.71-pounder to win a $2,000 hourly
big-bass prize. The 12.7-pounder won an hourly prize Saturday
valued at more than $6,000 and then held up to claim the overall
championship during Sunday's final round, in which a 9.99-pounder
was the heaviest bass weighed.
Pulsipher's current mood stems from the holding pattern he is in
at Class AAA Norfolk. The 24-year-old left-hander is 7-5 with a
3.96 earned run average for the Tides, but he has lost his last two
starts. He knows there is no room for him in the Mets' rotation
right now. But that does not alleviate any of the thoughts going
through his head.
Not that Pulsipher has no chance for a call-up. The day after
trading for Hideo Nomo on June 4, Mets General Manager Steve
Phillips called Pulsipher to tell him that he would not rule out
promoting Pulsipher in a bullpen role. But that apparently did not
assuage Pulsipher's fears, because he and Phillips met in Norfolk
last week to talk again.
In 14 starts, Pulsipher has allowed 50 runs, 38 earned, and 91
hits in 86 1/3 innings. He has walked 41 and struck out 58. Lately,
his name has come up in trade rumors, but until a deal is made or
until the Mets beckon (and Mark Mimbs is the hottest left-hander in
Norfolk right now), Pulsipher will just have to wait.
The Mets have no such problems with Payton, who returned last
Monday from an 18-day stay on the disabled list because of a pulled
right hamstring. Duquette said Payton is not playing first base
anymore. It is either left field, center field or designated
hitter.
First, though, Payton needs to strengthen his hamstrings. While
he was on the disabled list, an examination showed that his
hamstrings were significantly weaker than his quadriceps. And even
though Payton was put on a strengthening program immediately, he
felt something in the right hamstring earlier this week.
That is because, at 25, Payton is the brightest offensive
prospect in the organization. After undergoing numerous elbow
surgeries that limited him to 71 minor-league games two seasons ago
and none last year, Payton is batting .255 with four home runs and
14 runs batted in, in 46 games with the Tides. He has 10 doubles,
three triples and 11 stolen bases. He has already been called up to
the Mets briefly this season, although he never actually appeared
in a game.
And it is not a stretch to think Payton could be playing a
little center field for the Mets, maybe even by the end of this
season.
With Wilson, it is difficult to know what the expectations are
anymore. Since undergoing surgery on his right shoulder on Nov. 12,
1996, the big right-hander has pitched in just five games, all last
season, and all in the low-level minor leagues.
This year, after being set back by shoulder and elbow stiffness,
Wilson has finally progressed to the point where he can throw
batting practice, which he was scheduled to do for Todd Hundley
again Saturday.
Nah. It's just a part of that elusive quality that is commonly
known as chemistry. This isn't the kind of chemistry of elements
and periodic tables, or the kind of chemistry that results in
explosions when the wrong stuff is mixed together.
This is the kind of science that can have some influence on how
a sports team plays on the field.
Chemistry was cited as a major ingredient when the Rangers won
the West in 1996. Some of those players are gone, notably
designated hitter Mickey Tettleton, center fielder Darryl Hamilton
and third baseman Dean Palmer.
But the chemistry apparently remains with this team. And that
chemistry will be called upon as the Rangers try to battle back
into first after losing their division lead to the Anaheim Angels.
Team chemistry is kind of like the wind. Few can explain what it
is, or where it comes from, but you know when it's there and can
sense when it isn't.
Like H2O, which assumes the shape and color of what it's poured
into, chemistry takes on many forms.
Wetteland played on two teams with that kind of chemistry the
1994 Montreal Expos that had the best record in baseball when the
players went on strike and the '96 Yankees that won the World
Series.
But also important is the chemistry of getting along well in the
clubhouse, of blending 25 players of different ages and from
different backgrounds and cultures in order to perform on the
field.
Leaders such as Wetteland help make sure it happens. An example
is his complicated set of bullpen rules.
The rules even apply before the game. That's why, even though
the game still was a couple of hours away, Levine asked Wetteland
if he wanted a cup of coffee, and why Wetteland was so polite in
accepting.
If the players didn't like each other, off the field it could
turn into resentment and animosity.
CLEVELAND Joe Torre will be an American League coach at next
month's all-star game in Colorado, at the request of Mike Hargrove,
Cleveland's manager. But it may be that only a couple of Yankees
players join him, in spite of the team's staggering success the
first half of this season.
No Yankee player is leading at his respective position in the
balloting of fans, although Derek Jeter has a chance to overtake
Alex Rodriguez among the shortstops. That would mean the Yankees'
representatives would have to be chosen with an at-large bid,
leaving them at the mercy of an imperfect system for selection.
Bernie Williams would have been a strong candidate to be picked,
but it may be that he won't be able to play again until after the
all-star game break. Paul O'Neill has hit well, and yet he doesn't
have the gaudy power numbers.
Chuck Knoblauch is among the league leaders in runs scored, but
he's hitting .273 and other second basemen, like Damion Easley of
Detroit, have much greater production. Jeter was the Yankees' best
player in the first two months but missed 15 days with an injury,
and Hargrove seems to be leaning to including his own shortstop,
Omar Vizquel, on the American League squad; that may or may not
leave room for a third shortstop, like Jeter.
David Cone has nine victories and is averaging more than a
strikeout an inning, but his earned run average of 4.82 will hurt
his chances. David Wells is 8-2 and pitched a perfect game; he,
too, has a relatively high ERA (4.47) among all-star candidates.
Mariano Rivera, the Yankees' closer, has permitted just one walk in
20 appearances and has a 1.11 ERA, but because of an early-season
injury and the Yankees' extraordinary offense, four other AL
relievers have more saves than he. (Hargrove may give him extra
consideration because he regretted not picking Rivera in 1996, when
Rivera was a dominant middle reliever.)
Hideki Irabu appears to be the Yankees' best pitching candidate,
bearing a league-best 1.68 ERA, and opponents have batted just .191
against him, also the best in the AL. Working against Irabu will be
his modest victory total of six (12 pitchers have eight or more
victories). Irabu will have a chance to make a case for selection
Sunday, when he pitches here against the Indians and Hargrove.
Scott Brosius, the Yankees' third baseman, may have the best
chance among the position players to be chosen. Cal Ripken Jr. of
Baltimore will be voted as the all-star starter at third base, but
Brosius is having perhaps the finest season of any American League
third baseman. Going into Saturday's game, Brosius was batting
.317, with 40 runs scored and 46 runs batted in, and he has
received increased recognition for his defense.
Hargrove asked Torre to be his coach in 1996, but Torre declined
for family considerations. Later that season, Hargrove sent Torre
notes, telling him he was praying for his brother Frank, who
eventually needed a heart transplant.
Jaret Wright angered the Yankees in spring training when he hit
Luis Sojo with a pitch, breaking his hand and spurring their belief
that he threw at Sojo intentionally. But Wright confirmed his place
on the Yankees' most hated enemies list Friday night, when he hit
Paul O'Neill with a pitch and then appeared to glare at the Yankee
outfielder.
O'Neill yelled at Wright as he walked to first base, with Umpire
John Shulock escorting him most of the way, to keep O'Neill calm.
Of course, they could always get an intriguing late trade offer,
like the one last week from Milwaukee Bucks general manger Bob
Weinhauer, who was shopping former All-Star point guard Terrell
Brandon or one of two first-round picks for a move up the selection
ladder.
Barring an unexpected trade or meteoric rise from a surprise
prospect such as Michigan's Robert Traylor, the Mavericks have
targeted their Final Four.
They are planning to select either Saint Louis guard Larry
Hughes, Kansas forward Raef LaFrentz or one of two North Carolina
teammates, forward Antawn Jamison and guard Vince Carter, with
their No. 6 pick. Nelson brought only those four players in for
private workouts and seems content to add one of them most likely
Carter or LaFrentz to a team that last season went 20-62 and
missed the playoffs for a league-high eighth consecutive time.
In what is becoming a consensus scenario among NBA personnel
types, Arizona guard Mike Bibby, Pacific center Michael Olowokandi
and Kansas forward Paul Pierce are expected to go 1-2-3 in some
order. That leaves the Mavericks third in line for the four players
that round out the draft's top tier. Hughes is one of the draft's
fastest risers and Jamison is considered a top-five pick, possibly
leaving Dallas with a choice between the athletic-but-raw Carter
and the polished-but-soft LaFrentz.
The Mavericks, who also have the 30th, 35th and 53rd picks,
enter the draft seeking a pace-pushing point guard and a bulky
backup center. But as for the four players who could slide to No.
6: VINCE CARTER 
At 6-foot-7, 215 pounds and possessing an unmatched first step
and leaping ability, Carter was one of the nation's best finishers
as a junior last season. He averaged 15.6 points per game, but was
never forced to consistently knock down the open 15-footers he will
have to bury as an NBA shooting guard or small forward.
During workouts for Vancouver, Golden State, Denver and Dallas,
Carter impressed with his shooting form if not his results.
With the Mavericks, Carter could play shooting guard, sliding
Michael Finley to small forward in case Nelson remains pessimistic
of re-signing free agent Cedric Ceballos. RAEF LaFRENTZ 
The 6-11, 235-pound senior is considered the best power-forward
prospect. A two-time first-team All-America selection and Big 12
player of the year, he has impressed scouts with his soft,
left-handed touch and array of low-post moves that led to 19.8
points and 11.4 rebounds last season.
At 6-9 and 223 pounds, Jamison was simply too quick for college
forwards and averaged 22.2 points and 10.5 rebounds as a junior at
North Carolina last season. With pogo-stick jumping ability and a
cat-quick release on his shots, he was the nation's consensus
player of the year last season, joining only Michael Jordan as the
only Tar Heel to accomplish the feat.
While scouts rave about his aggressiveness, agility and knack
for being in the right place at the right time, they're confused as
to whether Jamison is a small forward or power forward.
With the Mavericks, Jamison could utilize his athleticism in
Nelson's up-tempo style and allow Finley to play his more natural
shooting guard position.
The Mavericks have long coveted the 19-year-old since watching
him average 20.9 points as a 6-5 freshman shooting guard at Saint
Louis last season. Though he averaged only 2.4 assists, took almost
17 shots per game and shot only 41 percent (29 percent on
3-pointers), scouts drool over his quick first step, ball-handling
skills, unlimited shooting range and ability to create his own shot
off the dribble.
Hughes, who scored 30 points seven times last season, could
eventually become the fast-breaking point guard Nelson desires. In
light of Robert Pack's injury-riddled season, Hughes would seem a
perfect fit in Dallas. Nelson, however, realizes the secret is out.
The SEC, which started the realignment raiding rage in 1992 when
it added Arkansas and South Carolina, finds itself standing in this
game of musical schools. To stay at 12, it has to invite a Big East
refugee or pluck an unripe school (Louisville?) from the expansion
vine.
Fictional whimsy, you say? Perhaps. But the previous five
paragraphs are closer to fact than fantasy. Why? I've heard
off-the-record whispers from a variety of people who think the Big
Ten is ready to round out its membership to a dozen. And its
primary target is Notre Dame.
Recently, Big Ten officials shrugged off a story out of Ann
Arbor, Mich., that had Notre Dame joining their league. There will
be more stories and speculation, but we won't know for sure until a
news conference is called. When and if that happens, the conference
alignment dominoes will start falling.
The Big Ten has been at 11 teams since Penn State joined in
1993. By adding a 12th team, the Big Ten could stage a conference
title game that could be worth $5 million to $7 million in
television rights fees.
But isn't it preposterous that haughty Notre Dame, the school
with its own football network (NBC), would join any conference? Ten
years ago, did you think the possibility of the Southwest
Conference dissolving preposterous?
The Big Ten has made overtures to Notre Dame before. This time,
I hear, it's a Godfather offer. Take it or leave it, Irish, there
won't be another chance. The Big Ten is going to 12 no matter what.
And if Notre Dame refuses, the Big Ten is prepared to invite
Syracuse from the Big East. That would begin the end of the Big
East, where Notre Dame has found a home for its sports other than
football.
With most of the second-tier bowls aligned with conference
tie-ins, Notre Dame is boxed out of the postseason if it fails to
earn a spot in one of the four Bowl Championship Series games. That
problem is solved if it joins the Big Ten.
(Quick aside on a juicy rumor: Big Ten commissioner Jim Delany
is considering emulating director James Cameron's King of the World
personna. He has talked casually of testing the limits of
expansion. 16 teams? 20? 28? 30? 32?)
If the Big Ten domino falls, then watch the feeding frenzy. Word
is the ACC is eager to reach a dozen members and has its eye on
Syracuse, Boston College and either West Virginia or Miami of the
Big East. The Big East is on the endangered species list.
The Pac-10 will get to 12 by inviting Colorado, a school which
considered a Pac-10 offer in the Big 12's infancy. And the Pac-10's
12th school?
BYU or Utah. Yes, either of the two leaders of the Western
Athletic Conference renegades would be a perfect fit; plus, the
Pac-10 has few other options if it wishes to expand.
All the breakaway WAC schools have is the good word of their
eight fellow defectors, so BYU and Utah are free to cut a better
deal. There is no honor among thieves or conference shufflers.
And no, the Big 12 wouldn't throw a lifeline to TCU or SMU to
become Colorado's replacement. With the SWC dead, Arkansas' escape
in 1992 has been erased from its permanent record. Arkansas would
be a geographic fit for the Big 12.
Once the SEC drafts a 12th school, big-time college athletics
would be found in five 12-team conferences: ACC, Big Ten, SEC,
Pac-10 and Big 12.
And there would again be peace in the collegiate valley. At
least until those five conferences get fed up with the NCAA's
meddling and decide to form their own association.
TENDEX is a rating system originated in 1960 that blends 10
statistical categories into a formula to show the number of points
per minute a player is worth to his team.
The formula regards each possession as worth about one point.
Everything that contributes to scoring and getting the ball
(points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks) is measured on the
plus side. Everything that results in loss of possession (missed
shots and turnovers) is a minus.
After computing the statistics, adjustments are made based on
the pace of play and strength of schedule.
Game-pace rating is determined by considering all of the
statistics for a team and all of its opponents to come up with a
number that serves to balance the ratings of players on
high-scoring offensive teams with those of players on conservative
offensive teams.
Because it's easier to rack up big statistics against weak
opponents, a strength-of-schedule factor is added to make all teams
equal.
The result is a three-digit TENDEX rating, not unlike a batting
average in baseball. This is then given a plus or minus rating
comparing that player's rating to the average rating for that
position. The best players are the ones whose ratings are highest
above the positional average.
Step 5: Figure Oregon State's team game-pace rating by computing
the pure stats total for the entire team and multiply that by .8,
which is .9111. Divide .7072808 from above by the team's game pace
(.9111) to get .7762932.
Step 6: Figure Oregon State's strength-of-schedule rating by:
adding the conference rating for each opponent and dividing by the
number of games in the season. For example, say there are 30
conferences rated 1-30 and all opponents for that season are from
the Big 12, which is rated No. 1. That would be 30 divided by 30
games, which would be a strength of schedule rating of 1.000.
Oregon State's strength of schedule rating is 1.088. Divide
.7762932 from above, by the the strength of schedule rating (1.088)
to yield Benjamin's final TENDEX rating of .713.
The final tally: Benjamin's plus-373 rating results from the
difference between his overall rating (.713) and the average rating
for a college shooting guard (.340). TENDEX at work Comparing the actual 1997 NBA Draft to the TENDEX projections. 1997 NBA Draft No. Team Player, College Pos. Comment 1. San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F Consensus rookie of the
year 2. Philadelphia Keith Van Horn, Utah F Averaged 19.7 points
and 6.6 rebounds 3. Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G Traded to
Toronto 4. Vancouver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G Shot 41
percent from field 5. Denver Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F Averaged
8.4 points 6. Boston Ron Mercer, Kentucky G Boston's second-leading
scorer 7. New Jersey Tim Thomas, Villanova F Traded to Sixers,
started 48 games 8. Golden State Adonal Foyle, Colgate C Made only
one start all season 9. Toronto Tracy McGrady, Mt. Zion Academy F
Prep star started 17 games, shot 45 percent 10. Milwaukee Danny
Fortson, Cincinnati F Traded to Denver 11. Sacramento Kings Olivier
Saint-Jean, San Jose State G/F Shot only 40 percent 12. Indiana
Austin Croshere, Providence F Played only 243 minutes all season
13. Cleveland Derek Anderson, Kentucky G Superb Sixth Man, shot 87
percent from foul line 14. Clippers Maurice Taylor, Michigan F
Averaged 11.5 points, 4.2 rebounds coming off bench 15. Mavericks
Kelvin Cato, Iowa State C Traded to Portland, blocked 94 shots 16.
Cleveland Brevin Knight, Stanford G Earned first-team All-Rookie
honors 17. Orlando Johnny Taylor, Tenn-Chattanooga F Appeared in
only 12 games 18. Portland Chris Anstey, Australia C Averaged 5.9
points, 3.8 rebounds 19. Detroit Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C Appeared
in 33 games 20. Minnesota Paul Grant, Wisconsin C Missed season
because of injury 21. New Jersey Anthony Parker, Bradley G Traded
to Philadelphia 22. Atlanta Ed Gray, California G Shot 38 percent
FG 23. Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G Averaged 11.6 points, 3.2
assists, 1.5 steals 24. Houston Rodrick Rhodes, Southern Cal G Shot
37 percent FG 25. New York John Thomas, Minnesota F Traded to
Boston 26. Miami Heat Charles Smith, New Mexico G Dunbar graduate
played a total of 292 minutes 27. Utah Jacque Vaughn, Kansas G
Firmly planted on Jazz bench 28. Chicago Keith Booth, Maryland F
Appeared in six games 1997 TENDEX Draft This is the way TENDEX predicted the draft would go (comments are
given for players not mentioned above) No. Team Player, College Pos. College rating 1. San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F .927, plus-457 2.
Philadelphia Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F .641, plus-191 3. Boston
Chauncey Billups, Colorado G .562, plus-212 4. Vancouver Derek
Anderson, Kentucky G .726, plus-386 5. Denver Antonio Daniels,
Bowling Green G .576, plus-226 6. Boston Keith Van Horn, Utah F
.738, plus-348 7. New Jersey Adonal Foyle, Colgate C .669, plus-199
8. Golden State Ron Mercer Kentucky F .537, plus-226 9. Toronto Tim
Thomas Villanova F .508, plus-108 10. Milwaukee Kelvin Cato, Iowa
State C .671, plus-201 11. Sacramento Lorenzo Coleman, Tennessee
Tech C .694, plus-224 Playing overseas 12. Indiana Olivier St.
Jean, San Jose State F .711, plus-321 13. Cleveland Danny Fortson,
Cincinnati F .771, plus-321 14. Clippers Tracy McGrady, Mt. Zion
Academy F no rating 15. Dallas Brevin Knight, Stanford G .563,
plus-213 16. Cleveland Tunji Awojobi, Boston U. F .689, plus-239
Not drafted 17. Orlando Jerald Honeycutt, Tulane F .572, plus-182
Averaged 6.4 points in 58 games 18. Portland Bubba Wells, Austin
Peay F/G .638, plus-248 Set NBA record for fastest disqualification
in a game 19. Detroit Eric Washington, Alabama G .537, plus-197
Averaged 7.7 points in 36 starts 20. Minnesota Charles Smith, New
Mexico G .558, plus-218 21. New Jersey Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C
.636, plus-166 22. Atlanta Devin Davis, Miami (Ohio) F .599,
plus-209 Not drafted 23. Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G .562,
plus-217 24. Houston Kebu Stewart, Cal-State Bakersfield F .615,
plus-165 Grabbed 31 rebounds in 110 minutes 25. New York Kiwane
Garris, Illinois G .537, plus-187 Not drafted 26. Miami Anthony
Parker, Bradley G .522, plus-182 27. Utah Austin Croshere,
Providence F .541, plus-151 28. Chicago Nate Erdmann, Oklahoma G
.506, plus-166 Drafted in second round 1998 TENDEX Draft List This list includes TENDEX ratings of players eligible for the 1998
draft.
Players should have plus-100 ratings to be considered draftable
and they should be at least plus-200 to be considered lottery
material. 
College players should progress in their ratings each season.
Example: Ball State's Bonzi Wells had a .656-plus 266 as junior.
This year as a senior, he improved to .725-plus 335, an improvement
of 60 points. He's rated No. 10 on the TENDEX list.
There are no TENDEX ratings for the four high school players
expected to be selected in the first round of the draft because
high school teams do not keep detailed statistics.
The drive to clean up campaign finance dismissed as hopeless
by many a Beltway expert got a shot of adrenaline last week.
First, the House broke free of the Republican leadership, conducted
its first spirited debate on reform and blocked two attempts to
derail the Shays-Meehan bill. No less dramatic, nine former leaders
of the American Civil Liberties Union repudiated the organization's
wrongheaded view that the bill is unconstitutional. The reformers'
ranks are growing. It is likelier than ever that the bill can pass
in the House.
The constitutional issue was at the center of the week's crucial
developments. The ACLU has warned that Shays-Meehan would violate
the Supreme Court's regrettable Buckley vs. Valeo decision. That
1976 ruling threw out the campaign spending limits imposed by the
post-Watergate campaign reform laws on free-speech grounds. By
equating spending with speech, the court has hobbled subsequent
efforts to clean up campaign finance. We have argued that neither
the Shays-Meehan ban on unlimited donations to political parties
nor its curbs of fund-raising for campaign ads run by independent
groups violate Buckley because they would curb fund-raising, not
spending. There have been limits on fund-raising since the ban on
corporate giving to candidates in 1907.
Most lawmakers with strong records in civil liberties agree that
Shays-Meehan is constitutional. But many Republicans, eager to
preserve Congress' current system of influence-peddling, have cited
the constitutional concerns as a cover. Independent groups like the
National Right to Life Committee, which would have to limit
fund-raising for its attack ads, also cite First Amendment
concerns. By speaking out, the former ACLU leaders have blown away
that smokescreen.
Given its history, of course, the Supreme Court could reject
some Shays-Meehan provisions. That is why it was important last
week to defeat a devious amendment advanced by opponents of the
bill. It would have nullified the entire bill if any part of it was
found to be unconstitutional. Thanks to a strong effort by Richard
Gephardt and David Bonior, the Democrats' leader and whip, almost
all Democrats voted no. They were joined by 65 Republicans.
Like the House's rejection of an attempt to substitute a study
commission for the real reforms of Shays-Meehan, the vote on Friday
demonstrated that dozens of Republicans are rebelling against House
Speaker Newt Gingrich's plan to position their party as the enemy
of clean campaigns. If these reform-minded Republicans now join
with the Democrats, Shays-Meehan will win. Opponents are running
out of tricks, and Gingrich henchmen like Rep. Tom DeLay are losing
their ability to intimidate GOP members. With a vote promised
before the August recess, this is a summer when lawmakers need to
hear from voters who want a Congress that is not on the take.
Benjamin, though, might very well be the surprise of the draft
with a .713 TENDEX rating, 373 points higher than the average
rating for a college shooting guard (.340). The past two college
guards to have ratings comparable to Benjamin's were Penny Hardaway
and Michael Jordan.
Benjamin, a 6-foot-6 shooting guard who averaged 19.5 points and
5.0 rebounds a game while shooting 54 percent from the field, was
one of four Pacific-10 Conference players to lead their teams in
scoring and rebounds in the 1997-98 season.
However, Mavericks director of player personnel Keith Grant,
whose team has the No. 6 overall pick, said Benjamin is not
considered one of the elite players in the draft. Grant cites
Benjamin's relative inexperience and his 29- percent shooting from
3-point distance.
Benjamin replaced Utah's Andre Miller as the TENDEX No. 1 pick
after Miller elected to return to the Utes for his senior year.
Miller is the projected No. 1 pick on the 1999 TENDEX draft list.
TENDEX ranks Benjamin, Pacific center Michael Olowokandi and
North Carolina guard Vince Carter as the top three choices in this
year's draft. Meanwhile, NBA scouts include Arizona guard Mike
Bibby, Olowokandi and Kansas swingman Paul Pierce among the first
three selections.
Other players rated by TENDEX to be high first-round selections
this year include Iowa small forward Ryan Bowen, Georgetown power
forward Jahidi White, and Northwestern center Evan Eschmeyer. All
three players are projected by NBA scouts to be no better than
second-round picks.
The drive to clean up campaign finance dismissed as hopeless
by many a Beltway expert got a shot of adrenaline last week.
First, the House broke free of the Republican leadership, conducted
its first spirited debate on reform, and blocked two attempts to
derail the Shays-Meehan bill. No less dramatic, nine former leaders
of the American Civil Liberties Union repudiated the organization's
wrongheaded view that the bill is unconstitutional. The reformers'
ranks are growing. It is likelier than ever that the bill can pass
in the House.
The constitutional issue was at the center of the week's crucial
developments. The ACLU has warned that Shays-Meehan would violate
the Supreme Court's regrettable Buckley vs. Valeo decision. That
1976 ruling threw out the campaign spending limits imposed by the
post-Watergate campaign reform laws on free-speech grounds. By
equating spending with speech, the court has hobbled subsequent
efforts to clean up campaign finance. We have argued that neither
the Shays-Meehan ban on unlimited donations to political parties
nor its curbs of fund-raising for campaign ads run by independent
groups violate Buckley because they would curb fund-raising, not
spending. There have been limits on fund-raising since the ban on
corporate giving to candidates in 1907.
Most lawmakers with strong records in civil liberties agree that
Shays-Meehan is constitutional. But many Republicans, eager to
preserve Congress' current system of influence-peddling, have cited
the constitutional concerns as a cover. Independent groups like the
National Right to Life Committee, which would have to limit
fund-raising for its attack ads, also cite First Amendment
concerns. By speaking out, the former ACLU leaders have blown away
that smokescreen.
Given its history, of course, the Supreme Court could reject
some Shays-Meehan provisions. That is why it was important last
week to defeat a devious amendment advanced by opponents of the
bill. It would have nullified the entire bill if any part of it was
found to be unconstitutional. Thanks to a strong effort by Dick
Gephardt and David Bonior, the Democrats' leader and whip, almost
all Democrats voted no. They were joined by 65 Republicans.
Like the House's rejection of an attempt to substitute a study
commission for the real reforms of Shays-Meehan, the vote on Friday
demonstrated that dozens of Republicans are rebelling against House
Speaker Newt Gingrich's plan to position their party as the enemy
of clean campaigns. If these reform-minded Republicans now join
with the Democrats, Shays-Meehan will win. Opponents are running
out of tricks, and Gingrich henchmen like Rep. Tom DeLay are losing
their ability to intimidate GOP members. With a vote promised
before the August recess, this is a summer when lawmakers need to
hear from voters who want a Congress that is not on the take.
TENDEX is a rating system originated in 1960 that blends 10
statistical categories into a formula to show the number of points
per minute a player is worth to his team.
The formula regards each possession as worth about one point.
Everything that contributes to scoring and getting the ball
(points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks) is measured on the
plus side. Everything that results in loss of possession (missed
shots and turnovers) is a minus.
After computing the statistics, adjustments are made based on
the pace of play and strength of schedule.
Game-pace rating is determined by considering all of the
statistics for a team and all of its opponents to come up with a
number that serves to balance the ratings of players on
high-scoring offensive teams with those of players on conservative
offensive teams.
Because it's easier to rack up big statistics against weak
opponents, a strength-of-schedule factor is added to make all teams
equal.
The result is a three-digit TENDEX rating, not unlike a batting
average in baseball. This is then given a plus or minus rating
comparing that player's rating to the average rating for that
position. The best players are the ones whose ratings are highest
above the positional average.
Step 5: Figure Oregon State's team game-pace rating by computing
the pure stats total for the entire team and multiply that by .8,
which is .9111. Divide .7072808 from above by the team's game pace
(.9111) to get .7762932. 
Step 6: Figure Oregon State's strength-of-schedule rating by:
adding the conference rating for each opponent and dividing by the
number of games in the season. For example, say there are 30
conferences rated 1-30 and all opponents for that season are from
the Big 12, which is rated No. 1. That would be 30 divided by 30
games, which would be a strength of schedule rating of 1.000.
Oregon State's strength of schedule rating is 1.088. Divide
.7762932 from above, by the the strength of schedule rating (1.088)
to yield Benjamin's final TENDEX rating of .713. 
The final tally: Benjamin's plus-373 rating results from the
difference between his overall rating (.713) and the average rating
for a college shooting guard (.340). TENDEX at work Comparing the actual 1997 NBA Draft to the TENDEX projections. 1997 NBA Draft No. Team Player, College Pos. Comment 1. San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F Consensus rookie of the
year 2. Philadelphia Keith Van Horn, Utah F Averaged 19.7 points and 6.6
rebounds 3. Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G Traded to Toronto 4. Vancouver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G Shot 41 percent from
field 5. Denver Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F Averaged 8.4 points 6. Boston Ron Mercer, Kentucky G Boston's second-leading scorer 7. New Jersey Tim Thomas, Villanova F Traded to Sixers, started 48
games 8. Golden State Adonal Foyle, Colgate C Made only one start all
season 9. Toronto Tracy McGrady, Mt. Zion Academy F Prep star started 17
games, shot 45 percent 10. Milwaukee Danny Fortson, Cincinnati F Traded to Denver 11. Sacramento Kings Olivier Saint-Jean, San Jose State G/F Shot
only 40 percent 12. Indiana Austin Croshere, Providence F Played only 243 minutes
all season 13. Cleveland Derek Anderson, Kentucky G Superb Sixth Man, shot 87
percent from foul line 14. Clippers Maurice Taylor, Michigan F Averaged 11.5 points, 4.2
rebounds coming off bench 15. Mavericks Kelvin Cato, Iowa State C Traded to Portland, blocked
94 shots 16. Cleveland Brevin Knight, Stanford G Earned first-team
All-Rookie honors 17. Orlando Johnny Taylor, Tenn-Chattanooga F Appeared in only 12
games 18. Portland Chris Anstey, Australia C Averaged 5.9 points, 3.8
rebounds 19. Detroit Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C Appeared in 33 games 20. Minnesota Paul Grant, Wisconsin C Missed season because of
injury 21. New Jersey Anthony Parker, Bradley G Traded to Philadelphia 22. Atlanta Ed Gray, California G Shot 38 percent FG 23. Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G Averaged 11.6 points, 3.2
assists, 1.5 steals 24. Houston Rodrick Rhodes, Southern Cal G Shot 37 percent FG 25. New York John Thomas, Minnesota F Traded to Boston 26. Miami Heat Charles Smith, New Mexico G Dunbar graduate played a
total of 292 minutes 27. Utah Jacque Vaughn, Kansas G Firmly planted on Jazz bench 28. Chicago Keith Booth, Maryland F Appeared in six games 1997 TENDEX Draft This is the way TENDEX predicted the draft would go (comments are
given for players not mentioned above) No. Team Player, College Pos. College rating 1. San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F .927, plus-457 2. Philadelphia Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F .641, plus-191 3. Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G .562, plus-212 4. Vancouver Derek Anderson, Kentucky G .726, plus-386 5. Denver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G .576, plus-226 6. Boston Keith Van Horn, Utah F .738, plus-348 7. New Jersey Adonal Foyle, Colgate C .669, plus-199 8. Golden State Ron Mercer Kentucky F .537, plus-226 9. Toronto Tim Thomas Villanova F .508, plus-108 10. Milwaukee Kelvin Cato, Iowa State C .671, plus-201 11. Sacramento Lorenzo Coleman, Tennessee Tech C .694, plus-224
Playing overseas 12. Indiana Olivier St. Jean, San Jose State F .711, plus-321 13. Cleveland Danny Fortson, Cincinnati F .771, plus-321 14. Clippers Tracy McGrady, Mt. Zion Academy F no rating 15. Dallas Brevin Knight, Stanford G .563, plus-213 16. Cleveland Tunji Awojobi, Boston U. F .689, plus-239 Not
drafted 17. Orlando Jerald Honeycutt, Tulane F .572, plus-182 Averaged 6.4
points in 58 games 18. Portland Bubba Wells, Austin Peay F/G .638, plus-248 Set NBA
record for fastest disqualification in a game 19. Detroit Eric Washington, Alabama G .537, plus-197 Averaged 7.7
points in 36 starts 20. Minnesota Charles Smith, New Mexico G .558, plus-218 21. New Jersey Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C .636, plus-166 22. Atlanta Devin Davis, Miami (Ohio) F .599, plus-209 Not drafted 23. Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G .562, plus-217 24. Houston Kebu Stewart, Cal-State Bakersfield F .615, plus-165
Grabbed 31 rebounds in 110 minutes 25. New York Kiwane Garris, Illinois G .537, plus-187 Not drafted 26. Miami Anthony Parker, Bradley G .522, plus-182 27. Utah Austin Croshere, Providence F .541, plus-151 28. Chicago Nate Erdmann, Oklahoma G .506, plus-166 Drafted in
second round 1998 TENDEX Draft List This list includes TENDEX ratings of players eligible for the 1998
draft.
Players should have plus-100 ratings to be considered draftable
and they should be at least plus-200 to be considered lottery
material. 
College players should progress in their ratings each season.
Example: Ball State's Bonzi Wells had a .656-plus 266 as junior.
This year as a senior, he improved to .725-plus 335, an improvement
of 60 points. He's rated No. 10 on the TENDEX list. 
There are no TENDEX ratings for the four high school players
expected to be selected in the first round of the draft because
high school teams do not keep detailed statistics. 
MOSCOW The warmth and lingering daylight of a Moscow summer
could make even the harshest periods of Soviet rule seem less
demented. The appearance of flowers and fresh fruits and vegetables
in barren markets temporarily lifted the city's spirits, creating
the illusion that this was just another European capital marking
time until the August holidays.
Now it is no longer an illusion. Moscow may not be Paris or
Rome, but it is no longer a world apart. The differences of dress,
demeanor and politics that made Moscow so distinctively depressing
have melted away. From its monumental traffic jams to its
supermarkets, boutiques and elegant restaurants, Moscow is a big,
bustling, brash metropolis exploding with energy and
entrepreneurial activity.
To see the city again after an absence of three years, and to
compare it to the Soviet citadel of 10 years ago where I worked as
a correspondent, is to appreciate anew how far Russia has traveled
since the demise of Communism. The economy is shaky, corruption is
ubiquitous and the power of the wealthiest bankers and businessmen
remains largely unchecked, but these and other deformities should
not overshadow the political and economic changes that have
transformed Russia in just a few years. Almost as swiftly as the
1917 Bolshevik Revolution sealed Russia in hermetic isolation, the
arrival of democracy and capitalism have set it free and tied it to
the West, culturally and economically.
Moscow is the epicenter of change, and the locus of wealth, in
the new Russia. It will be some time before the rest of the
country, including St. Petersburg, comes anywhere close to matching
the standard of living now enjoyed by many Muscovites.
One of the best seats for observing the new Russia is on the
terrace outside the cavernous McDonald's at Pushkin Square. Though
the novelty of Big Macs has faded, the restaurant still has cachet
with Russians and serves as a mecca for affluent young Muscovites.
They arrive in Jeep Cherokees and Toyota Land Cruisers, cell phones
in hand. The men are dressed nattily in light-weight pleated
trousers, colorful sport shirts and tasseled loafers, the women in
short skirts, tight tops and stylish Italian shoes. The scene seems
almost unimaginable to someone who lived here a decade ago.
The McDonald's also attracts working-class customers who have
become indistinguishable in appearance from their counterparts in
London or New York. The nondescript Soviet wardrobe has almost
entirely vanished, replaced by jeans, colorful outfits and Nike or
Reebok shoes. Even eyeglasses and sunglasses are sleek. After
decades of enforced conformity in everything from clothing to
politics, Russians have seized the chance to assert their
individuality.
Across from the McDonald's is a small plaza that is part of the
boulevard that circles central Moscow. Once a cheerless place with
a few scruffy benches and an expanse of dirt, it is now the site of
a leafy beer garden where people congregate after work, engaging in
easy conversation as the daylight stretches far into the evening.
The talk is of business and politics, romance and vacation plans.
The fear that once permeated Moscow and made it so inhospitable to
such gatherings is gone.
The new Russia is an unfinished work. It is a land that favors
the young and those unbroken by Communism and has little patience
or compassion for those unable to adapt. But Moscow, at least, is
increasingly a city where people can enjoy life. Considering its
history, that is no mean feat.
The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for use
by clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Sunday,
June 21. If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt on
the Star's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.
When the wounded Havrum returned from the battlefront, Helen
Havrum was waiting. They had married in 1943, before he went to
war. He was 17 and she was 16.
Elzie Havrum worked as a laborer and lift operator at a brick
factory in Fulton for almost 40 years and also ran an auction
business out of a barn behind his house.
But when he was buried that day, it was not for the last time.
In January 1993, two FBI agents called on Helen Havrum and asked
her to sign forms permitting them to exhume her husband's body as
part of an investigation of deaths at Ward Four East.
The exhumation in March reminded Havrum of that sorrowful night
nine months earlier when she saw her husband alive for the last
time.
Elzie Havrum had been sick often. Years of smoking when he was
younger and many more years of working in the dusty brick factory
contributed to bouts of asthma and emphysema.
On the morning of June 14, Elzie Havrum told his wife he needed
to go to the hospital because he couldn't catch his breath. He had
spent three days there a week earlier for similar problems.
By evening, he was in a hospital room sitting up, eating and
talking to visitors, his wife recalled.
About 11:30 p.m., Havrum received two Tylenol 3 tablets, which
contain codeine, for his bad back. Helen Havrum stayed with him
until about midnight and then went home.
Williams summoned the doctor on duty but did not call a Code
Blue, which would have brought in a team of emergency medical
personnel. Williams did nothing to help Havrum until the doctor
arrived at 1:15 a.m., the lawsuit says.
The doctor, Malti Gohel, said in her notes she found Havrum with
no pulse, heartbeat or blood pressure, and she pronounced him dead.
Neither did the doctors. Muthu Krishnan, the doctor who admitted
Havrum, said he was in stable condition, but didn't need intensive
care. In his deposition, Krishnan said Havrum had a lung disorder,
rapid breathing, swelling of the legs and feet and a blue tint to
his tongue and extremities.
Toxicologists and other experts hired by Havrum and the
government sharply disagree on whether his body contained a toxic
amount of codeine.
When Havrum's body was exhumed, tests ordered by the FBI
indicated that his liver contained about six times the amount of
codeine considered to be fatal.
The autopsy did not indicate whether the codeine was given by
injection or in pills. Christensen estimated it would take 20 pills
to reach that codeine level.
The autopsy showed needle marks in Havrum's left buttock and
left elbow, but found no codeine residue. The lawsuit said hospital
records report only a shot to the elbow.
Government experts later re-tested samples from Havrum's body
and concluded that earlier tests were misleading. Their follow-up
study indicated he had the equivalent of about two Tylenol 3s in
his system.
Further, they said someone dying of a codeine overdose would
deteriorate over a few hours rather than going into respiratory
failure so quickly.
Bruce Halsey, a Havrum friend, says Havrum deserves some answers
about her husband's death and is entitled to compensation for her
loss.
When Havrum died six years ago at the Truman Memorial Veterans
Hospital in Columbia, Mo., at age 66, his wife assumed the cause
was natural.
Next month, the 71-year-old widow, who has never set foot in a
courtroom, puts the United States on trial in a wrongful death
lawsuit that alleges negligence and malpractice at the
government-owned hospital. She seeks unspecified damages.
Helen Havrum claims her husband died at the hands of a nurse the
FBI investigated but never charged in 33 suspicious deaths at the
hospital. Havrum alleges a codeine overdose killed her husband.
The government wanted the 1995 lawsuit dismissed, saying Havrum
lacks evidence and waited too long to file. But U.S. District Judge
Nanette K. Laughrey of Kansas City denied the motion Friday.
The Havrum trial will be the fullest public exploration of any
of the 33 suspicious deaths, said Gordon Christensen, a doctor at
the veterans' hospital who called public attention to the series of
deaths in 1992.
Relatives of one other veteran filed a lawsuit in St. Louis, but
a judge dismissed it last year, saying it missed the statute of
limitations deadline.
Patients were 10 times more likely to die while nurse Richard A.
Williams was on duty, according to an analysis by Christensen. No
similar pattern emerged for other nurses or medical personnel at
the hospital, he found.
Of the 55 persons who died in the ward between March 8 and Aug.
22, 1992, 45 died while Williams was on duty, hospital records
show.
In the lawsuit, Havrum faults the hospital for hiring Williams
after he had been fired from a job in Springfield, Mo., for failing
to give prescribed medicine and falsifying records.
Further, Havrum said the hospital was negligent to keep Williams
on duty after more than 30 patients died unexpectedly on his watch
between March and June of 1992.
Nurses discussed the pattern of deaths with supervisors in April
and for several more months before action was taken, the lawsuit
said.
The hospital assigned another nurse to work with Williams in
August. But twice during the next week, when the other nurse called
in sick, patients of Williams died.
Williams was then transferred out of patient care, and he quit
the hospital in December 1993. He took a job at the Ashland
Healthcare nursing home in Ashland, Mo.
Williams, 32, has since moved from job to job in the St. Louis
area. He would not comment Friday but told a reporter last year he
didn't give Havrum any unauthorized medicine.
Kurtz declined to let a reporter interview Havrum or her three
children. Christensen said he can imagine the pain waiting has
caused Havrum's family.
At her house on the outskirts of Fulton, Helen Havrum is
literally surrounded by memories of her husband. He built the house
himself 32 years ago, and the tidy living room is filled with
pictures of him with his wife, children and grandchildren.
Helen Havrum stows some of her husband's belongings in a plastic
sandwich bag: his worn leather wallet, his watch, a jackknife, two
pocket tape measures, even a car wash token.
In a little felt-lined case, she keeps the Purple Heart he
received during World War II in the Philippines. A skinny teen-ager
when he went to war, Havrum had his service end when he took a
faceful of Japanese shrapnel. MORE
UNDATED When Callaway Golf Co. last month stood up for its
marketplace rights, it provided a valuable lesson for all
businesses threatened by regulatory ambition.
Callaway also helped the business of golf avert a disastrous
clash with the game's stewards. The last thing the game and the
industry needed was a fight between equipment manufacturers and the
game's ruling authority just as golf is poised for a new era of
growth.
Unlike most American enterprises, those in the golf business
aren't as worried about government regulators as they are about the
U.S. Golf Association, which is to golf what the Financial
Accounting Standards Board is to accounting.
The buzz in golf circles in recent months was that USGA fears
about high-tech equipment making golf too easy would soon result in
a regulatory squeeze play. Topping the rumor list was a prohibition
on over-sized titanium drivers of the type pioneered by the folks
at Callaway. Another rumor was that the number of clubs allowed for
play would be reduced from 14 to 12, which was perhaps the most
frightening prospect for most equipment makers.
The claim that golf is becoming too easy likely seems fatuous to
anyone familiar with the game. Callaway, however, opted not to
depend entirely on common sense and intuition to guide the debate.
Rather, it took an industry leadership role by purchasing ads in
major publications to explain why the rumored concerns of the USGA
were groundless.
Pertinent points included in these ads were the fact that
handicaps for average golfers have remained about the same for a
generation while scoring on the pro tour hasn't been improved
appreciably by high-tech weapons. Byron Nelson's record
single-season scoring average, Callaway noted, has remained
unbroken for more than a half a century.
The Callaway ad, though, didn't get into golf's centuries-old
evolution. Golf began as a primitive pastime using wooden-shafted
clubs to hit balls stuffed with feathers around grazing lands.
Today's equipment and courses approach a perfection made possible
by modern science and agronomy. Nevertheless, golf remains probably
the most difficult to master of all the games ever created.
Callaway's challenge to the game's clubby mandarins no doubt
helped carry the day, because none of the worst of what was feared
came to pass. When the USGA used this year's U.S. Open tournament
as the forum to announce its much-feared equipment rules changes,
it opted mainly for the status quo. Equipment currently available
apparently will remain so, and the USGA will merely continue to
study new developments with an eye on preserving the game's
integrity.
It was both a wise and politic decision because a radical rules
revamping would have created a bifurcated game. Many weekend
golfers would have ignored any ban on game-improvement clubs, which
would have undercut the USGA's ability to rule. Meanwhile,
manufacturers would have buried the USGA in lawsuits, further
debilitating the game's governing authority.
For its part, Callaway has done golf a great service by standing
up for the rights of the game's devotees against overarching
regulators. By helping to convince the USGA to back off its power
trip, it also did the association a favor, whether the USGA
realizes it or not. And last but not least, it provided business a
lesson in how to defend its rights from misguided meddlers, both
private and public.
Since entering the Westchester County market in 1995, Donald
Trump has proposed three golf-course projects. He now may make a
fourth proposal, for property he recently purchased along the
border with Putnam County.
This is Trump's first foray into Putnam County, where on June 10
he paid $1.75 million for 265 acres of rolling hills off Indian
Hill Road in the town of Putnam Valley. A small portion of the
property, about 30 acres, is in Yorktown. The land had been in
foreclosure and was taken over by Bankers Trust Corp.
The four Trump development projects make him the leading
developer of new courses within the region, which he believes has a
powerful appetite for new courses, especially those of championship
caliber. But while his Westchester proposals percolate through the
public approval process, others also are developing or improving
courses in the region.
In Carmel, in Putnam County, an 18-hole course at the privately
owned Centennial club opened May 22 and is available to the public.
The greens fee is $65 Tuesday through Thursday, including golf
cart, and $85 Friday through Sunday. Nine additional holes are
expected to be ready for play in mid-July.
In West Nyack, in Rockland County, the Manhattan Woods Golf Club
is expected to open in July, with play limited to members.
Several existing clubs are busy sprucing up to hold their
position in the midst of all the new competition. The Ridgeway Golf
Course, a private club in White Plains, for example, is embarking
on a $3.5 million renovation of its clubhouse, expanding its dining
room, installing a new kitchen and upgrading locker-room
facilities.
There are a total of 50 golf courses in Westchester County.
Seven are open to the public and the rest are private.
At one time, Trump planned to build a golf course in New Castle
on land owned by International Business Machines. But that idea was
dropped when the county acquired the land to build its sixth public
course. The county will soon send out a request for proposals to
find a developer for the project.
In Putnam Valley, where Trump bought the 265 acres off Indian
Hill Road, there have long been rumors that he wanted to build an
upscale mall. He acknowledges that he was approached by a local
developer about such a project, but said that he was not
interested.
He did say he was negotiating with the New York state Department
of Transportation to buy an additional 58 acres that would bring
his property to the border of the Taconic State Parkway. Purdy
Halstead, the department spokesman, confirmed that the state had
agreed to sell Trump the land, but added that access to the Taconic
would not be granted.
Trump entered the county's real estate market in 1995 when he
agreed to purchase Davids Island in New Rochelle. He planned to
turn the abandoned Army post into a luxury residential complex.
After that deal fell through, he bought the 213-acre Seven
Springs estate, which straddles the Towns of Bedford, New Castle
and North Castle. The estate was originally owned by Eugene Meyer,
an industrialist who owned The Washington Post. His daughter,
Katharine Graham, to whom he left the newspaper and estate, was
married there in 1940. The estate's most recent owner was
Rockefeller University.
Trump plans to convert the estate into a golf course and build
10 mansions, he said, and a 38,000-square-foot limestone mansion,
built in 1917, will be converted into a clubhouse. It will include
three dining rooms, a bar and lounge and men's and women's locker
facilities.
The Trump project furthest along in the approval process is the
reconstruction of the Briar Hall Country Club in Briarcliff Manor.
Trump purchased the property and adjacent parcels around it a
total of 146.5 acres in 1996.
Trump plans to build 87 residential units in Briarcliff Manor,
30 of which will be in a four-story building adjacent to the
clubhouse. The remaining residences will be clustered in 22 two-
and three-unit town houses to be built near the clubhouse.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. The J.C. Nichols Co. board of directors on
Friday dismissed a rival offer of $70 a share for the company made
late Wednesday and urged shareholders to vote for the merger with
Highwoods Properties Inc., which has offered $65 a share.
Nichols said the higher offer, made by Blackacre Capital
Management of New York, paralleled what Nichols called similar
empty overtures made since the Highwoods deal was announced in
December.
Nichols included an extra ballot in the letter so shareholders
who have not voted could cast their vote immediately.
Officials with Blackacre said they would decline to comment
until they saw the Nichols letter.
Blackacre, which owns 14 percent of Nichols, made the offer
contingent on several conditions. One centered on Nichols breaking
the Highwoods deal and only paying $2.5 million in termination fees
instead of $17.2 million.
Nichols could only pay that fee if shareholders vote down the
merger, Nichols said. And because Blackacre's offer extends only to
July 2 one day after the Nichols special meeting to consider the
Highwoods merger there's no guarantee that Blackacre would make
an offer, Nichols said.
Nichols also downplayed Blackacre's stated intent to exercise
appraisal rights in the Highwoods deal and the effect it would have
on other shareholders.
Highwoods and Nichols struck a deal in which Highwoods would pay
$65 cash, shares of Highwoods stock, or a combination of cash and
stock for each share of Nichols stock. Shareholders may elect to
receive up to 100 percent of Highwoods stock. However, the total
transaction may comprise only 40 percent cash.
Exercising appraisal rights, also known as dissenter rights,
gives shareholders who oppose a merger a chance to get a higher
cash price for the stock after negotiations or an independent
appraisal. Blackacre said that could force some Nichols
shareholders who want cash for their Nichols stock to accept
Highwoods stock instead.
Nichols countered that 29 percent of shareholders already had
said they wanted all Highwoods stock. That leaves at least 45
percent cash for each of the remaining shareholders, in the event
Blackacre exercises appraisal rights.
To make the transaction more tax-friendly, Blackacre proposed
that the employee stock ownership trust buy up to 15 percent of the
outstanding shares from longtime Nichols shareholders. Blackacre
also suggested that the employee stock trust, which owns about 31
percent of Nichols, would remain an owner of 15 percent of the
company.
Nichols said that type of transaction would require Internal
Revenue Service approval, which was not guaranteed and which could
take months to get.
At a time when big one-design yachts and all the class rules
that come with them are dominating sailboat racing, a 26-footer
with an independent pedigree is competing as the little boat that
could.
The boat is a favorite to win the sport-boat division at Block
Island Race Week again when event begins on Monday on Rhode Island
Sound with 133 sailboats expected over all. One of the most
competitive classes will be among the 14 sport boats all from
production classes trying to unseat the free-spirited Wai Rere
(pronounced Why-REAR-ee). The craft has no class rules other than
to go fast.
The boat's New Zealand designer, Steve Thompson, has built only
the one boat. Formerly named Tom Tom Taxi, the boat was in New
Zealand when the Bouzaids took it for a sail. By the end of the
day, the couple had bought the boat for $25,000, a good buy. Most
sport boats the modern 25-to-35-foot open-cockpit racers cost
more like $50,000 to $80,000.
Wai Rere has a oversized ballast bulb at the end of its fin
keel, and a circular, bowl-shaped hull that likes to heel rather
than stay flat in a breeze. The way the Bouzaids see it, that makes
the boat easier to sail than its contemporaries.
The closest thing to it in competition today is the Viper 830GR,
a larger and more expensive version of Wai Rere. Also a Thompson
creation, the sailboat is built in Tiverton, R.I., as a production
model with its own set of class rules. Two Viper 830's are expected
at Block Island, and both have names that indicate a challenge to
the Bouzaids' flying fish: one is High Voltage, and the other,
Snakebite.
The Newport Bermuda Race got off to a smooth start Friday
afternoon for the fleet of 161 boats that began the race in a
dwindling 7- to 9-knot southwesterly breeze off Newport, R.I.
Boomerang, the competition's record-holder, needs to finish in
less than 57 hours 31 minutes 50 seconds, the pace it set in the
635-mile voyage two years ago. Rima and Deep Powder, two new
60-foot yachts designed by Bruce Farr Associates of Annapolis,
Md., are favorites to win on corrected time under the International
Measurement System, the handicap racing division in which they are
competing.
The biennial competition draws both amateur cruising boats and
state-of-the-art race boats. Jim Mertz, an 87-year-old yachtsman
from Rye, N.Y., is competing in his 27th Bermuda race. He is
skipper of Symphony, a Beneteau 42.
Cable Wireless Adventurer, the odd-shaped, 115-foot powerboat
attempting to break a 83-day record around the world, is expected
to arrive in New York City around 8 a.m., Eastern time, on Tuesday.
The custom-made British boat left Gibraltar on April 19 in its
26,000-mile quest to beat a round-the-world time set in 1960 by the
nuclear-powered submarine the USS Triton.
It is expected to leave New York on Wednesday morning for the
last leg of its journey, a 3,000-mile trans-Atlantic voyage back to
Gibraltar. The powerboat will be docked at North Cove Yacht Harbor,
a marina near the World Financial Center.
Also at North Cove Yacht Harbor will be Young America, the
75-foot training boat for the New York Yacht Club's America's Cup
challenge in 1999-2000. The white-hulled sailboat was formerly
named Spirit of Unum, a trial horse in San Diego for the PACT `95
cup syndicate. It is expected in New York from Newport, R.I., on
Thursday, and will stay through July 4. It will take potential
donors and sponsors for a sail.
TOPEKA, Kan. A federal court jury on Friday rejected Bill
Koch's claims that two of his brothers defrauded him of as much as
$2 billion when he sold his stock in the family business, Koch
Industries of Wichita, Kan.
The jury's unanimous action ended an 11-week trial that drew
curiosity-seekers throughout and called into question the integrity
of the country's second-largest private company.
It also highlighted a 15-year feud between four brothers in one
of America's richest families: Bill, 57, and Frederick, 64, vs.
Charles, 62, and David, who is Bill's twin.
All are celebrities in their own worlds. Bill, a Palm Beach,
Fla., resident, won the America's Cup in 1992. Frederick is an art
dealer who lives in Monaco. Charles is the company's chief
executive officer and the only brother to remain in Wichita, where
they were raised. David is a vice president who operates in New
York's high society.
Since 1983, when they sold their stock for $1.1 billion, Bill
and Frederick have been battling Charles and David. Soon after the
sale, Bill claimed that Charles and David hid information about the
company to devalue the stock.
Bill shook his head once when he read the jury's verdict form.
He was the only brother in Topeka for the verdict.
Bill Koch, vowing an appeal, continued to attack the company and
his brothers. He said his case was crippled by the judge's
restrictions on what claims his lawyers could make and how they
could cross-examine Charles and David.
Bill Koch compared his legal battle to the sailing competitions
that led to his taking the America's Cup.
But jurors, who deliberated over two days, said the evidence was
not difficult to sort through because they had heard it repeatedly.
Jurors also got an earful of family gossip, but insisted it
played no part of their deliberations. For instance, they heard
about a terrible argument at a Christmas dinner in which Bill
allegedly blamed his mother for all his problems. They heard about
how one cousin, 89-year-old Howard Marshall II, married 26-year-old
Playboy centerfold Anna Nicole Smith.
The Koch name will continue to be dissected in court. Bill Koch
is suing the company on allegations Koch Industries stole oil from
American Indians. That case will go to trial next year.
Rosser pointed out that the lawsuits are two of 10 that Bill
Koch has filed against Charles and David Koch and the company.
UNDATED Khakis. They were once considered classic, classy,
preppy and, well, more than a little boring. They have long been
what men with traditional fashion tastes wore sometimes too short with blue blazers. Ditto for women in loafers with baby
strollers.
But khakis began to take on a glossier, hipper image a few years
ago. Designer Karl Lagerfeld, in his unique talent for sweeping up
street fashion, did khakis for Chanel in the mid '90s. Then there
was Seinfeld's buddy George bumbling about in Dockers' khakis. They
became the acceptable fallback for business casual when people
didn't know what to wear.
And if not exactly high fashion, they are stylized in a variety
of trendy shapes. Liz Claiborne is doing them in three silhouettes
for women. The Gap ad shows wide legs and hip riders.
But are they cutting-edge? Hardly. Khakis date to mid-18th
century British armies and colonialism. The World War I soldiers
liked them enough to tote them home with them from battle.
Part of the appeal in a busy world today is probably the
versatility. They look good with a white T-shirt, a navy blazer, a
button-down or silk shirt.
Skip them for most weddings, fancy parties, executive board
meetings or a reunion of beatniks, but if you don't know what to
wear otherwise, keep khakis handy.
The next time you're scrounging through your crowded closet in
search of, say, your best white pants, it's OK to feel a touch of
envy toward singer Mariah Carey.
Pity the poor dear. She has to put on a robe and ride the
elevator down, just to get dressed.
UNDATED: Perhaps you find the ups and downs of hemlines
confounding. Maybe the blimp-shaped shoe-topping skirts and fuzzy
high-necked sweaters from fall fashion runways unnerve you. Or with
all the choices, you simply don't know what to wear.
It has made an impressive return to fashion's front ranks this
year after dawdling for a time in the shadows behind the T-shirt,
tank top and turtleneck sweater.
Indeed, the white shirt is easy to understand and it's
appropriate almost anywhere. Ask actress Sharon Stone, who skipped
beaded designer gowns to wear her husband's white shirt with Vera
Wang's silk wrapped skirt at the most recent Oscar presentations.
Draped nonchalantly, with the top buttons left casually undone,
the shirt remains one of the sexiest garments ever, showing coyly
from beneath a pinstriped trouser suit or topping well-worn jeans.
The basic shirt can be purchased at garage sales for a song and
in couture departments at three figure prices. It is the
quintessential wardrobe staple. It's an item for all seasons. And
most closets have at least a couple tucked in the back.
They tend to be sleek and short so that they don't bulge over
the hips under a pair of trousers or skirts. (To update your old
ones, crop them at the hips or relegate them to the role of
swimsuit cover-up or tunic for skinny pants.)
For summer, many are revamped in a variety of textiles and
shapes. Donna Karan did a shirt in white organza. White washable
linen shirts come from Kiko at less than $55. Emanuel has a trim
linen tunic.
Certainly, for most people, the white shirt conjures memories: a
round collared blouse slipped under a school jumper, a white
monogram button-down from college days, a first work shirt and a
boyfriend's shirt slipped over jeans on a Sunday morning.
But well beyond modern times, the shirt has had a significant
history in the fashion archives. For women, it began in the late
18th century when they first appropriated men's riding gear for
their own outings. At the end of the 19th century, as sportswomen,
secretaries and shopkeepers moved out into the world, they emulated
the men's tailored style.
They wore shirtwaists or shirts often with tailored coats and
boaters. But they also wore corsets and petticoats underneath,
Alison Lurie notes in her 1980 book, The Language of Clothes. They
were liberated from the waist up.
In the '20s the shirt took on the Buster Brown and Peter Pan
collars. In the '30s Marlene Dietrich gave men's clothing such as
the shirt and tie an elegance, sophistication and knockout
sexuality.
But soon after, the dress-for-success philosophy that held that
women could be more effective in the workplace if they dressed in
manly fashion arrived. It ushered in the no-nonsense button-down
cotton shirts, often decked with little silk scarf ties.
And so it went. In the '80s and '90s, the shirt still hasn't
lost its classic, good-to-have handy status, whether it flapped
over Karl Lagerfeld's tights in '87 or peered from beneath a power
suit or tucked into Gap khakis in the '90s.
As for guidelines for the shirt today, buy the best quality you
can afford. If it's cotton, keep the shirt sleek with minimal
jewelry. If in a fancier fabric, it may be embellished for after
five.
Consider how it will fit into the rest of your wardrobe. And
don't be afraid to be adventurous. You can't go too far wrong.
When the pool at Hampton Commons in Hampton Township, N.J.,
opened last month, residents of the 300-unit condominium
association were reminded that only unit owners whose maintenance
charges were current would be admitted. Bathers in arrears, the
board noted, could be fined $25.
Hampton Commons appears to be on the leading edge of a trend in
community relations providing residents with information and
interaction over the Internet as a supplement to the more
traditional ways of communicating with them.
Increasingly, boards are discovering that what the Community
Associations Institute Web site does for its members, individual
buildings can do on a smaller scale for their unit owners.
Hampton Commons, for example, posts on its Web site the minutes
of every board meeting, reports prepared by committees and notices
that range from who may use the pool to when shrubs displaced by
sewer line work will be replaced.
In addition, the board also posts bylaws, rules and regulations
and other information relating to the finances of the association.
And, like most Web sites, the Hampton Commons site also provides
links to other Web sites like local schools, governmental agencies
and, of course, the Community Associations Institute which, in
turn, provides links to hundreds of other related sites.
While establishing a presence on the Internet is neither
technically difficult nor excessively costly, there are at least
two issues that must be addressed by any co-op or condominium board
contemplating such a project.
At Hampton Commons, for example, a computer-savvy resident,
Bonnie Venable, volunteered her time and expertise to construct the
association's site and keep it current.
And for co-ops and condominiums in New York, the Council of New
York Cooperatives recently began providing member buildings with
the ability to establish a professionally designed site at minimal
cost.
Lloyd Chrein, president of Chrein.com, the company that designed
the council's Internet site, said that buildings that sign up for
CNYCSites will have a site designed for them that will be linked
directly with the council's existing site.
At present, Chrein said, the basic package being offered by
CNYCSites allows members to choose from three predesigned templates
into which individual buildings can insert whatever information
they choose.
Generally, Chrein said, the first page the home page contains information about the building, pictures or illustrations,
and links to other Internet sites. The second page, he said,
usually contains a bulletin board for listings of meetings,
activities and events and for posting apartments for sale or
sublet.
Additional pages can be added so that other information including building bylaws, proprietary leases and rules and
regulations can be instantly accessed by clicking on a link to
the desired page.
For members of the Council of New York Cooperatives, he said,
the one-time charge for designing a two-page site is $400. In
addition, Chrein said, member sites can be updated monthly for an
annual fee of $175. Additional information may be obtained by
calling CNYCSites at (212) 787-3462.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. First of all, when you hear about 65-year-old
Lou Joline competing in 100-mile treks across the mountainous West,
or his goal, some two-thirds completed, of running in a marathon in
every state, do not become despondent.
But in the face of Joline's accomplishments, the danger is
you'll shake your head in despair, then slump back into your
recliner.
OK, so here's Joline's story. About 20 years ago he started
noticing an expanding paunch, so familiar to many in their 40s and
beyond. To be perfectly honest, he needed to drop 35 pounds.
Joline started running, and little by little he lost the extra
pounds. He's stayed a trim 130 ever since. About three years into
his exercise regimen, while in Lawrence for a 10-kilometer
(6.2-mile) race, he noticed the event also included a marathon. He
decided to give it a shot. He did quite well, considering he hadn't
planned to run 26 miles that day.
Now he's completed 61 marathons in 31 states. For a real
challenge he runs races up and down Pikes Peak or enters 100-mile
competitions that grind on for 20 hours or more, like the one
coming up in August at Leadville, Colo. There's something wonderful
about running and clambering through a mountain forest, Joline
said. Not to mention incredibly challenging.
But don't worry too much about Joline. In fact, at this point
you can forget his story entirely and listen to Kristine Clark.
She's director of sports nutrition at Pennsylvania State University
and one of the judges who pored over thousands of entries in the
Knox NutraJoint Senior Fitness Search.
As people get older, they require fewer calories, Clark said.
Cutting back can mean even a small reduction of 100 or 200 calories
a day.
Joline, a grandfather himself, agrees, of course. His advice for
getting more exercise is to make it a social event. He belongs to
three running clubs and is president of the Kansas City Track Club.
Joline advises getting out three times a week to start, perhaps
30 minutes each time, and walking or jogging at a pace that allows
you to converse. You have to make some concessions to age, he said,
such as allowing for more time for warmup and recovery.
It seemed Snyderman was destined to become a doctor. She'd been
saying so at least since third grade. Her father and grandfather
were doctors; it was how the family defined itself.
She decided on a specialty in ears, nose and throat, just as her
father did, and was the first female surgeon at the University of
Arkansas in Little Rock. Now, at 46 and with three young children,
she's decided an important focus for her is women's health,
especially women over 40, a topic she thinks was long neglected by
the medical profession.
Women who understand that will more likely assert themselves
when it counts, Snyderman said. Health care for women in their 40s
and later, with the cultural changes over the last generation,
isn't getting any easier to navigate.
Snyderman says her message is a call to arms for women to be
proactive about their health care, especially as they age and their
risk of health problems increases. Women in their 40s start to feel
and see changes in their bodies unlike any time since puberty:
aching backs, wrinkling skin, sleeplessness and potentially more
serious changes.
It's a crucial time for women to take charge, Snyderman said.
Women should, first, trust their gut instincts about their health
and, second, foster a good relationship with their doctors, she
said.
Women have to be able to talk comfortably with their doctors, to
tell them what they think about undergoing certain tests and
treatments, she said.
That women are the chief nurturers in families often means they
neglect their own health while caring for others, Snyderman said.
The result is they don't get prompt medical attention and,
ultimately, their families suffer.
When Snyderman gives talks around the country, women ask about
the health changes they're experiencing and ones they're
anticipating, with some trepidation. As a resource for such women,
Snyderman wrote Dr. Nancy Snyderman's Guide to Good Health, a book
geared to women that covers such issues as heart disease, cancer,
menopause, aging and preventive health care.
Snyderman notes in the book that some health changes are
inevitable and some are exacerbated by a variety of bad habits,
such as too much caffeine, sun and alcohol as well as poor posture,
bad diets and lack of exercise.
And she tries to dispel common myths about women's health. One,
that because women live much longer than men, their health care
isn't as big a worry. Actually, Snyderman said, women don't live
much longer than men and many, at the end of life, must deal with
widowhood, dependency and degenerative conditions.
Two, that women's poor health is related mostly to their
reproductive organs. While it's true that women need health care
for maladies specific to their gender, it's also true that the
leading causes of death for men and women are the same heart
disease, cancer and stroke and in the same order, Snyderman said.
Snyderman finds that women, especially those past 40, are hungry
for information about preventing illness. Although her book goes
into more detail about prevention, Snyderman's brief advice is
this: Drink water, don't smoke, watch your diet and exercise.
Women also want to learn more about alternative health care,
Snyderman said. She encourages them to consider such options, but
only when it seems reasonable. For instance, she said, taking
echinacea for a cold or trying chiropractic or acupuncture for back
pain would make sense.
But she sees parallels between her TV work and regular
doctoring, and she appreciates the opportunity to reach so many
people.
- Americans grill 2.3 times a week, according to the
grillmeisters at Weber. (Compare that with just three times a year
for the folks in the United Kingdom.)
First it was Saveur magazine, and now the June issue of Food Wine magazine features a recipe for B.B's Lawnside Spicy Apple
Cider Barbecue Sauce. The article, written by cookbook author
Steven Raichlen, explores the four major styles of barbecue sauce:
Kansas City, Texas, North Carolina and Memphis.
Not just for breakfast anymore ... Susan Moehl and Penni
Johnson, the proprietors of Southmoreland, a Mobil Four-Star
bed-and-breakfast on Kansas City's Country Club Plaza, are dishing
up a barbecue breakfast for their guests from May to October. The
women use a hand-laid limestone barbecue pit to whip up such
breakfast barbecue meats as pork chops or ribs to ham or sausage
kebabs. They also sear Texas toast on the grill.
Cooking teacher and cookbook author Steven Raichlen spent three
years traveling the globe exploring the wide world of barbecue
culture for his much anticipated Barbecue Bible (Workman).
This month you can find Raichlen's Greek-inspired recipes for
Grill-Roasted Leg of Lamb with Lemon Butter, Greek-Style Garlic and
Lemon Roasted Potatoes and Swordfish Souvlaki on the Internet at
www.weberbbq.com.
I've noticed several trend trackers hailing Brazilian barbecue
(known in that country as churrasco) as the next hot food trend
coming down the pike. If a recent family vacation to Denver is any
indication, it's already starting to happen.
Three Rodizio (pronounced ho-dee-zee-oh) restaurants are
thriving. On two nights I enjoyed the full-blown meal, a staggering
variety of meats from a skewer including picanha (a
Brazilian-style beef filet), lamb, fish and delectable nibbles of
bacon-wrapped turkey.
A $15.95 per person price tag included gaucho-clad waiters and a
staggering self-serve salad bar with such exotic goodies as fresh
buffalo mozzarella, quail's eggs and feijoada, a black-bean stew.
But formal documents show that state officials had known the
takeover would result in millions of dollars in benefits to Lilco
executives, even if the exact amount was not specified. The records
include Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Lilco's
takeover agreement, its agreement to merge with Brooklyn Union Gas
and correspondence from the Long Island Power Authority, the state
agency that negotiated the takeover.
The dispute has clouded the governor's triumph in revamping Long
Island's electricity service at long last and delivering a 20
percent cut in what, under Lilco, had been the highest bills in the
continental United States.
The payouts, which also included $25 million to 25 other top
Lilco executives, bolstered the central argument of takeover
opponents, who contend that the $7 billion deal was a giveaway to
Lilco that burdens electricity customers with debt. The critics
charge that Pataki and his aides purposely ignored the compensation
issue for fear it would jeopardize the takeover.
Pataki has ordered the state attorney general and the Public
Service Commission to investigate the payouts and demanded that the
former Lilco chairman, Dr. William Catacosinos, return the money
and quit as chairman of Lilco's successor, Marketspan. The power
authority, which hired Marketspan to run the old Lilco system, is
withholding $1 million a month and imposing other penalties, and
the state Assembly has set a hearing on the matter for Tuesday.
Pataki and his power authority chairman, Richard Kessel, insist
that the payouts were surreptitious and violated the takeover and
merger pacts. They contend that Lilco executives were not entitled
to severance payments because they all automatically got new jobs
at Marketspan and never lost a day's pay.
Pataki and Kessel declined to comment directly about what the
documents disclosed about the compensation entitlements.
On March 25, 1998, opponents of the deal released Bonnifield's
1994 memo on the $10 million-plus golden parachute. In an interview
at that time, Kessel expressed no surprise about the memo. He did
not argue, as he does now, that such payments were prohibited, nor
did he indicate any plans to try to stop them.
Kessel now says he does not recall why he did not take a
militant stance in March and April against the planned Lilco
payments.
WALDO, Fla. -- Jim Hooten stood under the 100-year-old oak trees
that tower over his modest wood frame house, watching a wall of
orange flames rage through the dense stand of pines that grows
nearly to his back door.
Within minutes, he feared, his house and all he had worked for
would be gone, consumed by the latest wave of wildfires that have
swept across nearly 50,000 acres of bone-dry Florida the past
month. Scattered showers Thursday night and Friday weakened the
fires but did little to end the dangerous drought conditions.
By Saturday, the fires in 34 of Florida's 67 counties had
destroyed about 12,000 acres of timber worth an estimated $10
million, injured at least 14 people and killed one person, damaged
about 80 buildings and 65 vehicles, and left at least 1,000 people
temporarily homeless. Across the line in Georgia, wildfires had
burned another 13,600 acres, including an estimated $14 million
worth of timber, near the Okefenokee Swamp.
A half-mile away, Tammy Nichols and several other members of a
Florida Division of Forestry firefighting team were working
frantically to make sure that didn't happen.
A mile away from the firefighters at Waldo City Hall, Mayor
Louie Davis, City Councilmember Rodney Estes and City Manager Lee
Vincent came to the sobering realization that the fire just might
consume their entire town, burning the homes and businesses of the
1,100 residents.
It was Wednesday afternoon, and they had just ordered the second
evacuation of Waldo in as many days. Fortunately, most of the
residents on the side of town nearest the blaze heeded the warnings
and left. Most went to stay with family or friends or to motels in
nearby Gainesville.
By 3 p.m., winds were gusting out of the southwest at nearly 20
mph. The fire was raging dangerously close to a half-dozen
residences, and if it managed to cross a paved road on the town's
outskirts, quaint, sleepy Waldo would likely burn to cinders. The
flames would be fueled by the clapboards of the town's rustic,
wood-sided homes and the hardwood trees that shadow its streets.
Mayor Davis and a few others hopped in a car and drove toward
the billowing column of smoke.
Hooten thought the same thing as he jammed his pickup into gear
and headed up his dusty driveway.
Exhausted fire crews redoubled their efforts. The wind shifted a
little bit. The scorching sun, which has dried the state
relentlessly through three nearly rainless months, dipped into the
haze of smoke surrounding Waldo and raced to the horizon. As it
dropped, temperatures inched down from the 100-degree mark. As the
land cooled ever so slightly, a bit of moisture crept back into the
air.
It's been an odd weather year for Waldo. All winter, the town
was inundated by unusually heavy rains. Flooding hit a few homes,
tore up some roads, and caused major problems at the wastewater
treatment plant. Waldo was part of a federal disaster relief
declaration for the flooding.
For hours on end, Monahan and others kept answering the
telephones. The calls came from people they know by name and face
residents kept out because the fire danger was still too high.
Some left behind pets and were worried the animals hadn't been
fed. Estes, a high school economics teacher, volunteered to go to
the houses in question to feed and water the pets.
Vincent figures he slept about five or six hours total on
Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Tuesday he got home for a few hours
before returning at dawn Wednesday. Wednesday night he slept in
Police Chief D.W. Smith's office.
On the fireline, Tammy Nichols and her team members didn't sleep
at all. They came on duty Wednesday morning and went straight
through until Thursday morning when they finally got a break.
Nichols drives a bulldozer, cutting fire lines to try to stop
the flames from advancing. She wears a fire-retardant jumpsuit over
her pants and T-shirt, along with a hard-hat, a face shield and
heavy leather gloves.
Wednesday the flames jumped the fire breaks they were trying to
cut through the parched undergrowth. Bulldozers bogged down, even
threw a heavy metal track. Mechanics had to brave the flames to
repair the machines.
Nichols and the other forest service firefighters carry a
folded-up fire safety tent made of a space-age aluminum-foil type
material. If the fire engulfs them, they are supposed to jump off
their 'dozers, run back into the fire line they've cut and
hopefully find a spot where the fire has already passed. Then they
break out the tent and jump inside.
Mark Hebb, a forestry division district manager, ambled over to
the crew, who were gathered around a pickup waiting for a van to
carry them home for a few hours' rest.
The fire raged through the 40 acres of pine trees that Jim
Hooten was hoping to harvest in a few years as a nice addition to
his retirement income. It burned up a feed shed and two barns full
of farm equipment, antiques and family heirlooms.
But the family home still stands, untouched, a black fire line
still smoldering in the pines that march to within 20 feet of the
house.
To an outsider, the KB drugstores here were nothing but boxy
buildings with funny purple signs a bit of an eyesore next to the
mansions along St. Charles Avenue. But natives loved them, and when
the Pennsylvania-based national chain Rite Aid bought them out,
many vowed they would never shop there again.
Why all the fuss over a dying drugstore chain? Because a battle
for the soul of New Orleans is being waged, and, for the moment,
the outsiders are winning.
At least a dozen locally owned institutions have sold out or
closed in the past three years, and national chains, once
conspicuously absent here, are arriving in droves. The likes of the
House of Blues, Pottery Barn and Starbucks opening this summer are making the city feel more ... American. To many in this
aggressively untrendy town, Americanization represents a fate worse
than hurricanes, heat waves and bad oysters.
In 1994, the House of Blues, a slick, no-expenses-spared
nightclub chain owned, in part, by Dan Aykroyd, opened in the
French Quarter. The club immediately stole big local acts such as
the Neville Brothers from the considerably less glitzy local icon
Tipitina's. The old club almost closed.
In May, Maison Blanche, another local department store on Canal
Street, announced it had been sold to Dillard's Inc. The Arkansas
chain probably will close the downtown store and rename the ones in
the suburbs.
This summer, Starbucks, the ubiquitous Seattle coffeehouse
chain, will open in Uptown, a tony, residential area near Audubon
Park served by locally owned coffeehouses with strong followings.
Some are wondering whether Starbucks will go head to head in the
French Quarter with the famous Cafe Du Monde, home of chicory
coffee and sugary beignets.
Although proud provincialism has played a role in keeping the
national chains at bay, pure economics are involved as well. After
the oil bust of the late 1970s and early 1980s, national companies
were afraid to set up shop in New Orleans. Now that the city is
enjoying a rebound, it seems as good a place as any to do business.
To do that, PJ's plans to emphasize its uniquely New Orleans
spirit with one-on-one service and a slower pace.
Jordan argues that some local businesses have improved, thanks
to new competition. Tipitina's, which almost closed when the House
of Blues came to town, is thriving again by concentrating on
lesser-known, locally popular bands. They've even opened a second
location.
On the other hand, Terrence Fitzmorris, director of the Center
for the Study of New Orleans and the Mississippi River at Tulane
University, said he thinks people are overreacting.
Besides, he said, some of the outsiders were invited in. State
and local leaders OK'd plans for a huge, land-based casino near the
French Quarter. After a two-year battle, Harrah's Jazz Co., which
went bankrupt operating a temporary casino while building a
permanent one, has been given the go-ahead to finish construction
on the new casino and open for business.
JACKSONVILLE Mop-up duty doesn't lead to firefighting glory,
but someone has to do it.
Mop up means bulldozing street-wide paths through dense forest
to separate the charred land from the green, hosing down dry edges
and extinguishing sudden flares.
Kinkaid, a state forest firefighter, was joined Friday by five
firefighters from South Florida who pulled into their hotels at 2
a.m yesterday morning.
All told, 12 firefighters from South Florida three from Palm
Beach County have traveled north to help battle the raging brush
fires. They join crews from other states that are are monitoring
more than 7,000 square acres here.
The team split into day and night shifts. The first hooked up
around noon with crews from as far away as South Carolina and
Kentucky.
Despite temperatures striking 103 Friday, a record high for
Jacksonville, firefighters spent the day preventing rather than
putting out flames. Thanks to little wind, the few fires that
popped up were quickly checked, and no new fires began.
Lt. Brad Havrilla of Palm Beach County spent most of the day
fighting through forest to water down smoldering pine. He
concentrated on the perimeter of a 12-acre area that caught fire
two days ago.
A man whose Alachua home was in the path of a wildfire Wednesday
wouldn't leave. He had greeted firefighters with an M-16, according
to a firefighter who talked the man into letting his wife leave the
home.
MERCURY, Nev. To visit the Nevada Test Site, the nation's
primary nuclear proving ground for more than four decades, and
stand near a crater blasted deep into the desert bedrock, is an
exercise in silence.
The dry lake beds and thorny plains where scientists detonated
nuclear weapons during the Cold War are now, in peacetime, mostly
devoid of activity and hundreds of sheds and warehouses that once
housed personnel and research facilities are now eerily empty.
In an effort to generate money and promote economic development
here in southern Nevada following a moratorium on nuclear testing
in 1992, the government has begun to transform parts of this base where the staff has been cut from 10,000 to 2,500 into a business
park of sorts.
Companies are invited to open facilities at the test site whose main entrance is near this small town 65 miles north of Las
Vegas with the unusual lures of restricted access and absence of
neighbors who, for example, might complain about the use of toxic
chemicals.
The three-year-old program is similar to the Defense
Department's effort to help communities hurt by military
downsizing. But there are some important differences: The test site
is under no threat of closing, has no plans to sell off land and is
mandated to stay ready for nuclear tests in case international
tensions rise.
The only tenant so far is Fluid Tech, a company that cleans
equipment contaminated with low-level radiation. To its relief, it
has found a warm welcome inside a massive abandoned hangar with
steel blast doors, cleaning bays and an overhead crane. There, in
the '60s, scientists tried to develop a nuclear-powered rocket.
Fluid Tech's staff of about 40 workers and those government
employees not housed on the base live in such surrounding
communities as Las Vegas, Amargosa Valley, Tonopah and Pahrump, all
within two hours' drive of the test-site entrance.
One company that expects to move to the test site within the
next two years is Kistler Aerospace, which is planning to launch
satellites from the base on the world's first fully reusable
rocket. Launches require restricted airspace and dozens of square
miles of flat open land for the rockets to return if all goes
well using a parachute and airbags.
The company anticipates building a launch pad and several
buildings for flight control and assembly, representing a $45
million investment. Robert Wang, chairman of Kistler Aerospace,
said that his company was attracted by the availability of
utilities (unlike remote sites elsewhere) and equipment and the
potential of hiring part-time skilled personnel.
Other businesses expressing interest in signing on for one of
the various vacant buildings or at an industrial park planned
around the base airport include a company that recycles carbon, a
liquid-oxygen manufacturer and a company that is developing
hydrogen enriched natural gas for cars. One firm that is
considering building a solar power plant on the test site is now
negotiating with potential customers.
Businesses that move into the test site must still get state
licensing and follow environmental laws, which are generally less
restrictive in isolated locations. They must also get approval from
a board, which weighs such factors as the impact of the business on
national security, safety, interference with a neighboring Air
Force base and the creation of high technology jobs that could go
to laid-off test site workers.
That eliminates tennis-shoe manufacturers, for example,
according to Richard Betteridge, an Energy Department official who
is working to bring new activities to the test site. Even in the
unlikely event that such a business would want to be so far from a
city where workers could live, its presence at the test site would
not benefit the government's mission to create skilled jobs and
diversify southern Nevada's growing, but still casino-dependent,
economy, he said.
Among the market offerings are some for only temporary use, such
as an existing hazardous chemical spill center, which companies
like DuPont could lease for a few weeks to conduct safety drills.
And officials at the test site are also trying to attract more
government work, perhaps an antiterrorism center where engineers
would blow up mock buildings to learn how to build with more
durable materials. Universities are welcome to use the test site
for research, an Energy Department said.
But much of the test site will probably never be considered for
commerce. Parts of the base are reserved for secret military
projects, future nuclear detonations and an underground
nuclear-waste depository called Yucca Mountain, which is scheduled
to open in the next century. In addition, there are occasional
nuclear experiments not involving a chain reaction, crater fields,
and a small portion of land contaminated by radiation.
Commercial development is a profound transformation for the test
site, which has been the nation's primary venue for nuclear weapons
testing since 1951. Over the years, 928 nuclear devices have been
detonated, at first in the atmosphere, then deep underground after
the harmful effects of radiation became better known.
The work stoked the economy in the neighboring rural counties
and gave life to Mercury, the restricted government town on the
test site at which hundreds of scientists once spent the night in
dormitories. After the Cold War ended and much of the staff left,
the town's movie theater and bowling alley were closed.
If nuclear tests resume, the Energy Department says new
companies at the test site will not be thrown out nor be
contaminated by fallout. But some may be kept from their facilities
as a precaution for, at most, a few days when tests are scheduled.
It is too soon to say whether there will be much of a demand in
the business world to locate at the test site. However, Carlson
explained that his goals in marketing the base were fairly modest.
Most of them didn't know a blue line from a stretch mark. They
didn't know if Mike Eruzione was the team captain or the kid who
delivered the pizza.
Thus, when a team of overachieving U.S. college kids upset the
mighty Soviet Union in the Olympics semifinals in Lake Placid,
N.Y., people across America cheered and hugged one another with
pride. Hockey had a golden page to add to its memory book.
Alas, today in Lyon, France, the World Cup soccer match between
the United States and Iran will kindle interest, but it lacks the
relative drama of that night in Lake Placid.
From a Biblical standpoint certainly, from this corner of the
globe the match is not like David and Goliath. It's more like
cold-shouldered Cains and Abels.
Thus, to ask this team of U.S. soccer players, who fight a daily
battle for recognition on their own, to shoulder the country's
political pride seems grossly unkind.
There will be no banners, Lyon's gendarmes have decreed.
Security has been stepped up around town. Effigies of Jimmy Carter,
we also assume, will not be gassed and burned.
If the Olympics has taught us anything in 2,000 years, it's that
sports and politics have always been intermingled. Jesse Owens and
Hitler in Berlin. The bloody Hungary and Soviet Union water polo
match in Melbourne. The boycott in Moscow, and again in Los
Angeles.
In a perfect world, the only storyline today would be whether
Stewart or surfer-dude teammate Frankie Hejduk can muster scoring
chances against Iran's Ahmad Reza Abedzadeh.
Millions of Americans will be watching today. To them, Team
Satan has a score to settle.
It might be boorish. It might be immensely politically
incorrect. But for U.S. soccer, it's a captive audience. And
there's no 10-run rule.
ALBANY, N.Y. Gov. George Pataki began the year with a modest
list of things he wanted out of the Legislature: end parole for
violent felons, permit charter schools, allow casino gambling,
toughen penalties for juvenile criminals.
He got none of those. But while the 1998 legislative session,
which ended Friday, may look like a bust for the Republican
governor, it gave him a few handy issues to use as he runs for
re-election this year, particularly the timeworn theme that
Democrats are soft on crime.
He signaled as much in a news conference on Friday afternoon in
which he reviewed a session that was widely seen as one of the
least eventful in memory. Pataki bemoaned the gridlock in the
Capitol, and blamed the Democrats who control the Assembly.
Pataki's political advisers calculated that there was not much
he needed, politically, from this session, and they may have been
right. Polls show him with huge leads over his Democratic rivals,
and the governor seemed to spend more time this year touring the
state to promote his record than working in the Capitol to enhance
it.
Even his allies in the Legislature say that except for the
parole issue, he did not break a sweat this year lobbying for his
agenda.
He can tell communities in western New York and the Catskills
that see casinos as their best hope for economic development that
he tried, but he did not push the issue hard enough to raise the
ire of conservatives who oppose gambling. And he can tell minority
communities that favor charter schools that he fought their fight,
only to be thwarted by the Assembly's top Democrats, though the
Republicans who control the Senate were in no hurry to go down that
road, either.
In a way, it was a year made for political posturing, and not
just because of the coming election. In years past, lawmakers often
hitched smaller issues to larger ones, giving them leverage to get
more things done.
But this year, for the first time since Pataki was elected in
1994, there were no momentous issues hanging over the lawmakers'
heads, no budget crisis, no plan for deep cuts, no rent controls
ready to expire, no deadline for welfare reform. As legislators
noted repeatedly all year, there was nothing that, for either side,
absolutely had to be done.
In the final days of the session, there were a few notable
pieces of legislation passed, including one requiring that people
infected with HIV be reported to the state Health Department and
their sexual partners be notified. Lawmakers also agreed on a
program of inspections and emissions testing for heavy trucks and
buses, something long sought by environmentalists. And a deal was
struck on the management of the new Hudson River park in Manhattan
that places some limits on development along the river.
For the Assembly Democrats, especially Speaker Sheldon Silver,
the session went much as it did for Pataki. They, too, calculated
that there was not much they needed, politically. They, too,
entered the year with a limited agenda, and in defeat found
election-year ammunition.
Pataki's broad budget vetoes in April denied the Democrats much
of what they wanted, including a $500 million increase in spending
on school construction and a tripling of spending on child care.
Silver refused to negotiate with Pataki and the Senate majority
leader, Joseph Bruno, on restoring some of the vetoed items, saying
it was all or nothing.
From the start, the speaker made it clear that he would rather
have the issue to use against Pataki than have a fraction of the
money back. And as the session ended, Silver kept up his attacks on
the governor with an eye toward the November election.
The Assembly Democrats called for steps to reduce New York's
auto insurance rates, knowing well that the Republicans would
reject them. Again, even before the session had ended, the defeat
had become a campaign issue, as the Democrats running against the
governor piggy-backed on the Assembly's plans and blamed Pataki for
high premiums.
It was telling that when asked what he considered the major
achievement of the session, Silver cited not a piece of
legislation, but a process: the negotiation of a budget through
public conference committees with the Senate, rather than in
private talks.
Somewhat obscured by the furor over the vetoes was the
Democrats' achievement of some of the things they wanted most this
year, including a large increase in basic school aid, expansion of
the state's health care program for poor children, and a process
for people to appeal when their health insurance companies deny
coverage for certain treatments.
The Assembly passed a criminal-justice package that included the
governor's proposal to end parole, though it also included other
measures that Pataki and the Senate refused to accept. In the end,
no law was enacted, but the Democrats can go home and tell voters
that they, too, voted to abolish parole.
So attractive was that measure as a piece of political cover
that all the Republicans in the Assembly voted for it as well, for
fear that they would be accused of opposing the antiparole measure.
LYON, France In one of the wilder twists of the most
anticipated, and controversial, matchup of this World Cup, Iran
takes on its most-hated enemy of the last 20 years under the
leadership of a man who has enjoyed all the benefits of life within
the despised land.
Jalel Talebi, who seeks to guide the Iranians past the United
States tonight at Stade Gerland, has spent most of his time since
the Islamic revolution 19 years ago residing in the Bay Area, where
his sons were schooled, his wife runs a couple businesses, and he
has coached at the same junior college in which U.S. coach Steve
Sampson once played and coached.
His is a crucial job. Iran's emergence from the long, dark veil
of fundamentalism, a ongoing process not nearly finished, has been
exemplified by its success in soccer, and its reaction to that
success.
Its qualification for the World Cup, its first since 1978,
resulted in celebrations Khomeini never would have stood for, with
men drinking in public, women tossing aside their veils to kiss men
in the street, and a mass celebration in the national stadium that
included 5,000 women, who weren't permitted on the grounds.
Iranians, especially the young people, see the World Cup as a
chance to rejoin the world community, to show that they contrary to
widely held international beliefs are just like everyone else.
And if anyone embodies that concept, it is Talebi, 53, who was
forced to leave Iran when its war with Iraq, which began in 1980,
put an end to soccer in the country.
A little background: Talebi played for Iran's Olympic team in
Tokyo in 1964, and turned to coaching when a knee injury ended his
playing career. He was in charge of the Iranian Olympians prior to
the revolution, but found his skills no longer useful once the war
with Iraq began.
He took a job in the United Arab Emirates but didn't want his
children schooled in Arabic, so his family was sent to the United
States, to Palo Alto. He joined them in 1983 and has spent most of
the last 15 years there, taking off only for jobs with teams in
Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore.
He also spent a spell at Foothill College in Los Altos Hills,
where Sampson played and served as an assistant coach. The men met
in 1994, through Bora Milutinovic, Talebi's close friend.
His wife, Sira, opened a vegetarian restaurant and a skin-care
business, and his eldest sons, Babak and Borzov, attended local
universities and took jobs in Silicon Valley. His youngest son,
Bardia, just graduated from Palo Alto High School, where he was a
soccer star. He wants to play at UCLA.
Automated gas pumps record where you fill your tank and the
kind of gas you use. Video cameras watch for toll cheats on Ga. 400
and keep a wary eye on automatic teller machines. At work, your
boss may be reading your e-mail, counting the keystrokes you type,
or monitoring your phone conversations.
Don't like someone looking over your shoulder, prying into your
private life and watching your spending habits? Better get used to
it. Author, futurist and physicist David Brin says we're hurtling
headlong into an era when everyone's life will soon be an open
book.
Even someone with as fertile an imagination as Brin admits to
being a little unsettled by the speed at which technology is
pushing an intrusive nose into people's private lives.
Consider, for instance, the Transient Electronic Pulse Emanation
Surveillance Technology, a system already in use that enables
electronic sensors to record the contents of any computer screen through walls if it's necessary up to a half-mile away.
Over the years, science fiction writers have tended to see the
proliferation of privacy-threatening technologies in Orwellian
terms more tools for Big Brother to keep ordinary people under
the thumb. But where others see oppression, Brin sees
opportunities.
If high-tech marketers want to profile your spending habits, he
says, insist that you have access to their records as well. If
highway patrolmen carry video cameras to record their arrests,
maybe motorists should too. If Big Brother wants to watch, demand
the right to watch the watchers free access for all to
information.
In some cities, for instance, residents are recording the
activities of prostitutes in an effort to discourage them from
working their neighborhoods. Megan's Law, the federally mandated
register of sexual offenders, enables police and local residents
alike to identify potential child molesters living in their
neighborhoods. Environmental Protection Agency regulations now make
data on local sources of toxic waste available, too.
New information technology can also help make governments more
accountable. The Internal Revenue Service now uses supervision
software to ensure that its employees do not browse through tax
returns they have no official business seeing.
Brin says a brave new world of electronic vigilantes is bound to
conflict with individual needs for freedom and privacy. Human
nature makes it inevitable.
ATLANTA -- Back when I was a kid, the arrival of my Uncle Bill
at our house was a great event.
He lived in Alaska and to folks living in Arkadelphia, Ark. that was every bit as exotic as if he were a permanent resident of
Mars or Paris, France ... both places seemed about as far away.
The house was cleaned, we stocked up on the sort of food we
usually ate on Sundays, and my brother and I got new blue jeans.
I don't mean to tell you that Windows 98 is anything as
important as the arrival of my Uncle Bill. After all, he usually
gave us silver dollars and told stories about Alaskan-grown
strawberries that got danged near as big as heads of lettuce. Uncle
Bill was a storyteller and free with his money.
But some of you will need to get ready for its arrival. You
probably won't need new blue jeans, but you do need to prepare.
As the arrival of Windows 98 draws near, let's talk about how
you can get your computer ready for the newest version of Windows.
I hope you've already taken care of the first item on my list,
adding RAM. All the versions of Windows, including 95, are about as
hungry as a puppy with a tapeworm. Forget all the minimum
requirements and make sure you have at least 32 megabytes. Get 64
if you possibly can. With either version of Windows, RAM works a
lot like a supercharger when it comes to speed. You will notice a
difference.
Next you need to take a hard look at your hard disk. Truth is,
even 1-gigabyte disks are becoming too small for folks with a full
complement of programs. The good news is that hard disks just as
is true with RAM chips are cheaper than ever. The bad news is
that all these cheap prices can sure add up if you need RAM and a
bigger hard disk.
You'll also want to consider a faster modem if you have anything
less than a 56k bps modem. Now what, you ask, does upgrading a
modem have to do with installing Windows?
Besides the fact this is an Internet world nowadays, Windows
uses the Web for a remarkable feature that automatically looks for
updates to Windows itself and then helps you install them. That
means that, if you use the built-in feature, it's less likely
you'll miss an important bug fix or software update. But some of
these updates are huge 6 or more megabytes. You'll want to make
the download fast enough to make the process relatively pain-free.
Next, make a quick inventory of multimedia accessories such as
video card, sound card and the like. Windows makes good use of
graphics and sound, but if your computer is more than three years
old, you'll likely want updates here.
One thing I wouldn't worry about is rushing out to buy a new
computer to take advantage of the USB (universal serial bus)
technology. Don't get me wrong. It's neat stuff with USB you'll
be able to connect a lot of gadgets to your serial bus without
worrying about conflicts. But you'll be buying a new computer soon
enough, so don't use USB as an excuse. If your PC is at least a
Pentium running at 166 megahertz, it should do just fine with
Windows 98.
Finally, check your wallet. If you are like most people, you'll
soon need to find about $109 because no matter what you think now you'll almost certainly upgrade to Windows 98 within the next
three or four months.
ATLANTA -- For most computer users, the burning issue concerning
Microsoft's Windows 98 isn't the one grabbing the headlines the
antitrust questions it raises for the Justice Department.
Instead, home computer users are wondering whether they should
be lining up at dawn on Thursday to buy the latest version of
Windows when it officially hits the shelves.
Predictably, Microsoft bills the newest Windows as a much
improved version: faster, less likely to cause your computer to
crash or freeze, and loaded with dozens of new features to make
computing easier and more fun.
Almost as predictably, given the contrary nature of writers and
analysts, the majority of those folks see Windows 98 as a
relatively minor upgrade. It's been called a stopgap release
designed to provide bug fixes and updates that are already
available free for the downloading to Web-savvy users at
Microsoft's site (http://www.microsoft.com).
This is the last in the consumer-grade series of Windows. The
way things stand now, it's unlikely there will be a Windows 2000 or
2003. Microsoft plans to standardize something the company is
famous for already on Windows NT in upcoming releases. In the
future, there probably will be several versions of NT, Microsoft's
industrial strength version of Windows, which up to now has
been mostly aimed at businesses and power users.
I've been using the beta version of Windows 98 for several
months and installed an advance copy of the final commercial
version that will be sold in stores for $109. The recommendations
aren't as easy to make as when Windows 95 was introduced. That
program was a clear technical knockout winner when compared to
Windows 3.1, which it replaced.
So you'll have to decide. To better help you make up your mind,
let's take a look at some of the things that set Windows 98 apart.
Most people will be delighted to know that the familiar Windows
desktop hasn't changed much. In fact, unless you watch the Windows
98 startup screen, you'd be hard-pressed to tell at a glance
whether the program is Windows 95 or 98. While those who put a lot
of stock in the way a program looks may be disappointed, most
people will be glad to know that they won't have to relearn
Windows. Unlike the shift between 3.1 and Windows 95, you won't
need the skimpy user's manual to know how to launch programs and
use most Windows features.
This is Microsoft's biggest selling point this Windows is the
most stable yet. While even a few months of everyday use isn't
enough to make any definitive judgments about stability, it does
seem less likely to crash or freeze. The chief complaint of some
analysts that this is a minor upgrade may actually work in
Windows' favor here. Since it is not a radical redesign, there was
plenty of time to fix problems discovered in Windows 95 and not
enough changes to introduce many new ones.
Most experienced users know this, but novice computer users will
be relieved to know the installation process is automatic and does
not remove any of the programs or data used under Windows 95. I've
installed Windows on six separate machines and with one exception the installations were flawless. The one exception was a PC
connected to a local area network. Apparently, some of the
specialized network software caused problems and when the
computer was restarted it reported that some of the files needed
for the LAN were missing. However, reinstalling that software and
then reinstalling Windows 98 solved the problem. Expect to spend
about 45 minutes to an hour installing Windows 98.
Another nifty feature is the ability of the disk fragmentation
software to change where your programs are stored on your hard disk
based on how often you use each program. By putting the most often
used programs in the best positions, they'll load faster at the
expense of loading time of seldom-used programs. You'll need to use
the defragmentation program several times before you'll notice a
difference but over time you will see improvements.
Finally, there's the controversial melding of Internet Explorer
and the Windows desktop. That's one of the features that caused the
Justice Department to file the antitrust suit, since new users may
never try the competing browser from Netscape. Using this feature,
you can make launching a program and navigating through the file
system very much like using the Web. You get a more graphical look
and only needto single-click to perform most functions. However,
this feature seems to slow down most computers dramatically and has
not been popular with many earlier users.
All that said, what's the answer to the big question: Do you
line up at dawn on Thursday to buy Windows 98?
A lot depends on whether you enjoy the early morning. Windows 98
itself isn't enough of a change to make that dawn trip. However, it
is a legitimate improvement as you would expect from a major
program developed by a company with the resources of Microsoft and there's no doubt that most of us will be installing new Windows
sooner or later.
WASHINGTON A key election approaching, Rep. John Linder says
he feels no pressure in his job as chief fund-raiser and
cheerleader for Republican congressional campaigns.
The speaker is demanding the latest polling data and plans in
New Mexico, where Republicans risk losing a congressional seat and
seeing their small majority shrink from 11 to 10.
A few bad breaks here and there could end GOP control of the
House after four years, though most political analysts still
consider a Democratic takeover a longshot.
Two wild cards could dramatically alter the fall campaigns. One
is the ongoing investigation of President Clinton and the
Democrats, from campaign finance issues to allegations of an affair
with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. If independent
counsel Kenneth Starr sends Congress a report detailing wrongdoing
by the president, Republicans could be looking at big gains in
November.
The other unknown is the impact of the tobacco issue.
Republicans believe they can withstand the collapse of
comprehensive tobacco legislation in the Senate. Democrats believe
voters will hold the GOP accountable.
Still, it was something less than a vote of confidence when
anonymous sources last month told conservative columnist Robert
Novak, whose columns have served as trial balloons for Gingrich,
that Linder was being set up as the scapegoat for anticipated
Republican losses.
On top of that, Gingrich brought back Paxon to pry campaign
money from Republican House members for the GOP nominee in New
Mexico, Heather Wilson.
Linder stands by his prediction of a Republican gain of 10 seats
in November, more optimistic than most analysts and some Republican
colleagues.
The New Mexico election, to fill the seat held by the late Rep.
Steven Schiff, is the next test. Wilson and Democratic state Sen.
Phil Maloof are locked in a tight race and, whatever the result
Tuesday, they will square off again in November.
Both sides view the New Mexico election as critical. Dick
Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, and Dick Armey, the
Republican leader, are campaigning there this weekend.
Democrats also are sending Rep. Loretta Sanchez of California to
appeal to Hispanic voters. Jack Kemp, the 1996 Republican vice
presidential nominee, made an appearance for Wilson. Top political
operatives in both parties have been sent to Albuquerque as well.
Maloof, from a wealthy and politically well-connected family,
has paid for much of his race with family money, giving him a stout
advantage over Wilson.
But Paxon, whose ebullience contrasts with Linder's reserve,
said that by the time the election is over, he will have collected
$250,000 to $300,000 from fellow Republicans in the House for
Wilson's campaign.
He won't have time. The campaigns for the rest of the House will
intensify quickly during the next couple of months. Linder's
practiced calm, a vestige of an earlier career as a dentist, should
serve him well.
Linder's committee has raised more than $50 million, which will
allow it to give the maximum $70,000 to 100 candidates and finance
an array of issue ads that are not subject to Federal Election
Commission limits.
Those ads will counter an anticipated barrage from labor unions
in a couple of dozen districts, he said.
As it now stands, both parties are focusing on six to eight
races in California, three each in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Washington and Wisconsin and a few others across the
country.
In most instances, the most fiercely contested elections will be
in districts with no incumbent on the ballot and a rough parity
between Democratic and Republican voters.
There are some early warning signs for Republicans.
Conservatives in the House, upset with a lackluster legislative
agenda, had been reluctant to give money to the committee and some
moderate GOP candidates, but Paxon's intervention has helped.
They also were upset that Linder and Gingrich urged a moderate
Republican, Brooks Firestone, to run in a California special
election.
Now Gingrich is intervening in a primary in Georgia. He is
openly supporting Dylan Glenn, an African-American candidate and
former junior Bush White House aide, against businessman Joe
McCormick, who is white.
But if Gingrich is complicating things for Linder in South
Georgia, he also is the party's not-so-secret fund-raising weapon.
Linder will try to remedy that by sending Gingrich, a legendary
fund-raiser, to some of those districts during the July Fourth
congressional recess.
WASHINGTON When President Clinton leaves for his journey
through China, he will carry with him a stubborn hope to bring the
Beijing leadership into the world mainstream on many fronts from
nuclear nonproliferation to economic trade to greater
democratization.
But the results of the nine-day, five-city trip will be measured
not in the typical markings of diplomatic success treaties signed
and accords reached but rather in the gradual prodding of China
to open its borders to more US goods and its collective mind to
greater freedoms, all as part of a strategy known as engagement.
Standing in the long shadow of controversy over campaign
fund-raising allegations, Clinton will be officially welcomed on
Friday in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, site of the 1989 massacre,
then is expected to make pointed remarks on Chinese human rights
transgressions. He will highlight local democracy efforts in
Chinese villages. He plans to travel to the inland city of Guilin
to call attention to the massive environmental problems facing the
Chinese. And he will address the flagging Asian economy in an
address in Hong Kong.
This marks the first trip of a US president to China since
President Bush traveled to Beijing in 1989, months before the
massacre of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of student protesters on
Tiananmen Square. It is also the longest tour of any one country by
Clinton a partial payback, according to administration officials,
for Chinese President Jiang Zemin's 10-day US visit in October.
White House aides said Clinton, in tone and substance, will
strive to resemble House Speaker Newt Gingrich in his 1997 visit to
China, rather than Vice President Al Gore in his trip to Beijing
last year. Gore was widely perceived as unprepared and too
laudatory, while Gingrich received many plaudits back home, from
Republicans and Democrats, for upbraiding Chinese leaders on human
rights concerns.
In all, the presidential entourage will include a fleet of 747
jets packed with several hundred reporters, Cabinet secretaries,
White House aides, and other administration officials. The trip
will begin Thursday in the city of Xian, the ancient capital of
China and home to the famed terra cotta soldiers, and end on July 3
in Hong Kong, a symbol of China's potential future.
Among those traveling in the entourage will be US Representative
Edward J. Markey, a Malden Democrat and a member of the House
Commerce Committee. Also on the trip will be Secretary of State
Madeleine K. Albright, Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin,
Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman, and Secretary of Commerce
William M. Daley.
Still, at each stop, there will be questions, not just over
China's actions but over Clinton's motivations.
Back in Washington, Clinton has been accused by Republicans of
accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal campaign
contributions from Chinese agents trying to influence the 1996 US
election. In the last two months, he has been accused of approving
potentially harmful missile-technology transfers to China by Loral
Space Communications, a US company whose owner was the single
biggest Democratic contributor in 1996.
Congress has since banned such technology transfers. Clinton has
denied wrongdoing, saying he was simply adhering to a program that
was begun by President Reagan and continued under Bush. More than
100 Republican House members, including Gingrich, have demanded
that Clinton postpone his trip until the investigations into the
Loral transfer are completed.
In terms of concrete accomplishments, the United States is
hoping to sign a pact with China to no longer target each other
with nuclear missiles. Still, even that plan is considered largely
symbolic, because such missiles can be retargeted in a matter of
minutes. China has more than a dozen long-range missiles pointed at
the United States, and the United States has many more aimed at
China.
Clinton will seek to closely involve China in stemming the
possibility of a nuclear arms race between India and Pakistan,
partly by urging Chinese leaders to sever the flow of missile
technology to Pakistan, and partly by leading through a continued
example of nonproliferation.
Economic officials will continue to laud the Chinese over their
decision not to devalue their currency in the face of economic
turmoil across Asia, and urge them to continue to maintain the
value.
The United States, citing a $50 billion-a-year trade deficit
with China, will also push leaders to ease import restrictions.
On this trip, complaints have already arisen at home about
Clinton's visit to Tiananmen Square for the official welcoming
ceremony on Saturday. Clinton will be greeted by Chinese leaders in
the Great Hall of the People.
White House officials have intentionally scheduled the ceremony
for late Friday night EST, and have scheduled a press statement for
immediately afterward by Clinton at the Great Hall, where he will
issue a proclamation on human rights.
White House press secretary Michael McCurry said Clinton is
buoyed by the controversy because he believes it will help attract
attention to his mission of engagement.
A rematch with Tampa Bay at the Cotton Bowl tonight offers the
Burn a chance to prove it can win when expected. The game will also
give the Burn an opportunity to avenge an earlier loss to the
Mutiny, and a victory would allow Dallas to start closing the gap
in the MLS' Western Conference.
Two goals by U.S. national teamer Frankie Hejduk helped the
Mutiny (3-12) defeat Dallas, 3-1, on April 11. John Kowalski has
since resigned as Tampa Bay's coach, and Hejduk is starting for
Team USA against Iran in today's World Cup match.
Dallas (8-6) has its own problems and could have up to six
players miss today's match. Alain Sutter, Eric Dade, Jorge Flores,
Richard Farrer and Gerell Elliot could be sidelined by injuries,
and Leonel Alvarez will not play because of an accumulation of
yellow cards.
The Burn's last home game marked the league's most lopsided
match ever, an 8-1 loss to Los Angeles. Disappointing road games at
D.C. United and Chicago followed.
In two-plus seasons, the Burn has strung together no better than
a five-game winning streak, once last season and in 1996. This
year, Dallas started 3-0 but has yet to match that streak.
The Burn has been unable to project any fear factor like that
associated with Los Angeles or D.C. United, Washington said. In
1996, LA started 12-0 and began 9-0 this season. Two-time MLS
champion D.C. has consecutive 13-4 starts.
ELTON, England As the army of journalists and fleet of
satellite trucks withdraw for now from this quiet village, Louise
Woodward will soon make her way to the local pub and market without
the world watching.
But even those who campaigned to bring home the town's most
infamous daughter admitted that they could never again see her in
the same way, that just below the surface of daily routine and
pleasantries will exist a longing for answers.
The young woman who dreamed of becoming an actress is destined
for a life less ordinary, some specialists say. Made famous by a
trial observed around the globe and forever tainted by her
manslaughter conviction in the death of Matthew Eappen, an infant,
Woodward now walks the same path as others who became known for
their misdeeds.
Bybee compared Woodward to celebrity athlete O.J. Simpson,
accused and acquitted of murdering his wife and her friend.
Afterward, Simpson was dumped by his girlfriend, heckled on the
golf course, and snubbed by neighbors. Shutterbugs waited at every
corner, and he contemplated fleeing the country.
While channel-surfing at home last fall, Simpson called Court TV
during its broadcast of Woodward's trial. The fallen football
legend wanted to express his support for the frightened British au
pair one outcast to another.
As a convicted felon in a baby's death, Woodward should not
expect that those among the throngs which rallied for her during
the trial will welcome her with open arms if she tries to get close
to them.
 Her 14-year ordeal then became a roller-coaster ride of
headline-grabbing trials, convictions, and a series of appeals.
Earlier this month, a Superior Court judge overturned LeFave's
conviction, finding that the testimony of child witnesses had been
tainted by faulty interviewing. The state has appealed; if
prosecutors win, she returns to prison.
 LeFave said she lost a lot: eight years of her life in a
prison cell, her mother to cancer, her married life to stress and
her good name. She has never fully recovered.
Though she's technically an innocent woman and has been free for
nearly three years, LeFave said she sometimes lies awake all night,
her nerves worn raw by the experience. She said Woodward may have
the same anxieties.
LeFave, 40, has said she lives a closeted existence, rarely
leaving her Ashmont apartment, fearful of being recognized. At a
recent Elton John concert, she realized the joy had been torn from
her life.
Woodward says she wants to attend college and then get a job.
LeFave said she'd been there, too. She had a steady job as an
airline reservations clerk two years ago until a supervisor saw
her on the 6 o'clock news. LeFave was immediately escorted from the
premises.
 Then again, some say that like a fading athlete grown addicted
to glory, Woodward may miss the constant media attention: cameras
flashing and reporters jostling to get closer to her.
British journalists said last week that although they will soon
leave town, they will return to document Woodward's most personal
milestones: her start in college, her first job, her love
relationships and, especially, the birth of a first child.
On Tuesday, minutes after she left Marblehead for Logan Airport
and the flight home to Elton, media trucks and journalists
descended on the English town. Some villagers complained, and
others even crossed the street to avoid reporters. But Barlow noted
that still others have come to realize how vital publicity has
been a help to Woodward, at least financially.
Left alone, Woodward will probably suffer internal conflicts
between her belief that she's innocent and her court conviction,
British psychologists say.
Dr. Sidney Crown, a London psychotherapist, believes the
Woodward family should undergo counseling as Louise tries to regain
her life.
Woodward's challenge to adjust will be complicated by the fickle
press, said Dr. Richard Howells, a communications instructor at the
University of Leeds.
In November, when Judge Hiller Zobel reduced Woodward's
second-degree murder conviction to manslaughter and sentenced her
to the 279 days she had already served, the village of Elton
toasted Woodward with champagne, hailing her as a folk hero who'd
survived rough treatment in a foreign land.
But as she finally arrived here last week traveling like
royalty despite unresolved allegations that her family misused her
defense fund public opinion on British soil had already shifted.
Howell said Woodward's upcoming interview with the BBC's Martin
Bashir may swing the public pendulum back to Woodward, if all goes
well and, experts added, as long as she doesn't get paid for her
story.
NEW YORK Sometime in 1993 memories are hazy and nothing was
written down for the public the North American Air Defense
Command in Cheyenne Mountain, Colo., conducted a test to see what
would happen to all their computers the ones that warn of a
nuclear attack on New Year's Day of the Year 2000.
The Y2K problem is now a well-known bug the one demon in the
bag of popular millennial nightmares that is based not on
Nostradamus or other mythic apocrypha, but on hard science.
Every federal agency, bank, and major corporation has teams
devoting thousands of manhours to solving the problem in the next
18 months, before the deadline inexorably strikes.
But the military may be the hardest hit, because the
consequences could affect not just paychecks and power grids, but
war and peace.
Pentagon officials are hopeful that they will fix at least all
the critical systems in time, but they admit it will be a close
call, at best.
According to the Pentagon, only four countries the United
States, Britain, Canada, and Australia are doing anything to
prepare their military computers for 2000.
Hamre said the situation is so grim that the Pentagon is
developing a program to share data from US early-warning satellites
with other countries, including Russia and China. Otherwise, come
2000, such nations may find themselves in the dark, uncertain
whether an attack is coming or not which, in a crisis, could
provoke great anxiety.
Blair, who has interviewed several Russian nuclear officers,
said Russia faces particularly dire straits. Since its army has
collapsed, it is relying far more on its nuclear weapons for
security. And, because of shortages in manpower and money, its
nuclear weapons are becoming increasingly vulnerable and its
early-warning network more riddled with gaps.
That meeting resulted in a directive, sent to every relevant
office in the Defense Department, to address Y2K as a top priority.
By the end of next year, $1.9 billion will have been shifted from
various weapons programs to prepare for 2000.
First, the commercial computer industry might not be able to
supply the large quantity of hardware the communications hubs,
routers, and servers needed to make the fixes.
Then, the fixes themselves need to be tested and de-bugged which, as anyone who has purchased a software program during its
first weeks on the market knows, can take a while.
Finally, military computers interact with each other and with
civilian computers and these interactions could unfold in
unforeseeable ways.
When the Chrysler Corp. conducted a test of its Y2K solutions at
an assembly plant last year, the time clocks malfunctioned, causing
the security system to shut down, making it impossible for anyone
to leave the building.
When the Phillips Petroleum Co. ran a simulation onboard an oil
vessel in the North Sea, a safety system designed to detect a
deadly gas, hydrogen sulfide, shut down.
In some cases, real-life failures have taken place that only
begin to hint at how far-flung the problems might be.
A preview of possible military disasters was the incident in the
1991 Gulf War, when a Scud missile blew up a barracks in Saudi
Arabia, killing 28 National Guard troops inside.
A post-mortem of the disaster revealed that the Patriot
air-defense battery failed to shoot down the Scud because the clock
in the Patriot's radar system was not properly synchronized.
The radar had been designed to be left on for only a short
while. Its clock viewed a day as 23 hours and 59 minutes long.
However, once this particular Patriot arrived in Saudi Arabia, the
radar was left on continuously. So its clock drifted away from the
actual time by one minute per day.
When the Patriot system's computer detected an incoming Scud
missile, it would see the missile on two radar screens and send
both blips to another computer controlling its fire-control system.
But since the two blips were not synchronized, the fire-control
computer could not connect them could not see them as a target.
This is not your father's Red China. In fact, the country that
President Clinton will see this week barely resembles the country
that hosted George Bush for the last American presidential visit
nine years ago.
Since the Bush visit, China has developed commodities markets
and stock exchanges. Satellite dishes are everywhere. So are
personal agendas, personal computers, personal trainers, and almost
anything that stresses individual, not communal, growth.
Kentucky Fried Chicken KFC, that is is a popular lunch
joint. Chinese cities have private clubs, night clubs, strip clubs,
and book clubs, but the books are all about amassing capital, not
honoring Chairman Mao's dictums.
When Bush saw China, most of the population had been shaped by
Mao, who had died 13 years earlier. But today's Chinese have
distant memories, if any at all, of Mao and the Cultural
Revolution.
Make no mistake: President Jiang Zemin, the army, and security
services ensure that the newfound freedoms go only so far.
And to prepare for Clinton's nine-day, five-city visit, China
has conducted extensive sweeps of dissidents, jailing some,
threatening many, and shipping others far away.
Still, Roth insists that economic openings in China are leading
to some political openings. China blocks dozens of sites on the
Web, but plenty of information from exiles still comes through.
There are fledgling environmental groups. China holds relatively
free local elections.
The Chinese had a few special requests. They wanted to give
preschoolers an early appreciation of Chinese opera and art. And
because China's one-child policy has created a country full of sons
and daughters who are often spoiled, Big Bird's cousin and several
newly minted Muppet characters put extra emphasis on learning to
share.
And because this is the new, consumer-driven China, store
shelves will soon offer books, videos, and toys featuring the
6-foot-tall yellow bird and his Mandarin-speaking pals.
 By JOHN P. LOPEZ c. 1998, Houston Chronicle BORDEAUX, France Most of the time, ending a game with a tie is
like kissing your sister.
This time, after one of the more remarkable comebacks of the
World Cup thus far and a tying goal that was nothing if not
spectacular, it was like the entire Mexican team ascending the
Azteca pyramids, sweaty and exhausted, and thanking the heavens for
a divine effort.
All hope definitely seemed gone for Mexico at steamy-hot Stade
Lescure on Saturday. Belgium stormed to a 2-0 lead, the Mexicans
were playing a man short because of a questionable red card and
every legitimate Mexican opportunity was being kicked away.
The tie clouded Mexico's hopes of advancing out of the tough
Group E, which includes the favored Dutch, who defeated Korea on
Saturday. A win would have assured a trip to the single-elimination
second round.
Now tied with the Dutch with four points, while Belgium has two
(with a pair of ties) and South Korea none, Mexico must earn at
least a tie with the Dutch in order to keep its chances of
advancing since Belgium likely will beat South Korea.
The red card came against Mexico defender Pavel Pardo in the
29th minute, and by most accounts it was a questionable
interpretation of the back-tackle rule, which FIFA president Sepp
Blatter ruled should be an automatic red card and disqualification
from the game.
The call clearly devastated Mexico. Only minutes later Belgium's
Marc Wilmots put his team ahead with an easy boot into the back of
the net off a corner kick.
At halftime, Blanco said he told teammates to quit playing so
tentatively. But only three minutes into the second half it looked
as if Belgium would walk away with the victory when Wilmots got his
second goal on a nice individual effort to get clear in the Mexican
box and unleash the untouchable shot.
But Belgium didn't, thanks to a terrific effort by Ramon Ramirez
in the 55th minute that ignited his team.
Ramirez tried to take a pass in front of the Belgian goal and
work the ball past goalie Filip De Wilde. But as DeWilde tried to
converge on the ball before Ramirez could get off a shot, Belgium's
Gert Verheyen also crashed into Ramirez, clipping his heel from
behind.
Verheyen then received a red card from referee Hugh Dallas of
Scotland and Garcia-Aspe whipped in the penalty kick to make it
2-1.
The game-tying goal by Blanco was a thing of beauty, with
Ramirez taking the ball on a big run directly at the Belgian
defense, then chipping the ball across to Blanco.
The pass went long, well over Blanco, but Blanco dove feet-first
and whacked the ball with his left foot in front of De Wilde and,
well, then it was the raucous Mexican fans who went wild.
NEW YORK After tossing six shutout innings in Miami last
Sunday, Hideo Nomo said he could not remember his best performance
of the season. Suffice it to say, Nomo will surely be able to
recall better days than Saturday.
With 44,355 fans on hand at Shea Stadium for a souvenir bat
giveaway, Nomo could not find home plate. In his five-plus innings,
he not only walked six batters, but he also could not hold onto a
3-0 lead in a game he and the Mets would eventually lose, 8-3, to
the lowly Florida Marlins.
In case no one has noticed, the Mets are slumping. Badly.
Instead of energizing the almost-full house on Saturday, the Mets
let another game slip away to one of the worst teams in the
National League. In the last eight days, the Mets (38-31) have lost
six times to Florida and Montreal, including their last four in a
row.
By trading for Mike Piazza on May 22 and then for Nomo on June
4, the Mets were not only trying to shore up their roster for a
post-season run, but also trying to change a popular perception
that they were an adequate but boring team without any marquee
players.
But any team exciting or mundane that aspires to make it to
the playoffs simply cannot afford loss after loss to
salary-challenged teams like the Expos and the Marlins. If the Mets
keep it up, they may quickly chase away the fans they were hoping
to lure back to Shea.
In each of the six losses to the Expos and Marlins, the Mets
have had the lead sometimes late in the game, sometimes early,
sometimes in the fifth or sixth inning. In some of the losses the
problem has been a bullpen that has turned extremely shaky. In
others, it has been the normally stellar starting pitching that has
broken down. And in almost every instance, the Mets have been badly
served by an offense that just does not score many runs.
Nomo who has yet to win in three starts with the Mets was
almost down by 4-0 Saturday before the first inning was over. But
Wayne Kirby, who started in center field, reached up at the wall in
left-center and grabbed Derrek Lee's drive just as it was about to
become a grand slam. And then the Mets scored three times in the
third off Livan Hernandez, the first run driven in by Nomo on a
bases-loaded walk.
Florida Manager Jim Leyland was ejected from his perch in the
dugout one pitch later, having lobbed a few choice words toward the
home-plate umpire, Dana DeMuth. Edgardo Alfonzo, who had three
hits, followed with a two-run single to right to give Nomo a 3-0
lead.
But the Marlins roared right back to tie the game in the third
with a two-out rally, highlighted by Todd Zeile's two-run homer
that bounced off the top of the right-field fence. Nomo walked
three Marlins in the inning, including Craig Counsell with the
bases loaded, to give the Marlins a 3-3 tie.
Nomo then held the Marlins scoreless until the sixth, when
Counsell led off with a full-count walk and Hernandez singled him
to second after having fouled off two consecutive bunt attempts. On
came Brian Bohanon, who ended up throwing a wild pitch to enable
Counsell to score the go-ahead run.
The Marlins added two more runs in the seventh, although the
Mets cut down another run at the plate on a Matt Franco-to-Rey
Ordonez-to-Mike Piazza relay that began at the left-field fence.
Then Mel Rojas, who is in as bad a funk as anyone, gave up a pair
of runs in the eighth, raising still more questions about a bullpen
that does not have a right-handed reliever the Mets can depend on.
When it was over, the Mets were left wondering if it is a slump
or something more. Is it any wonder that Ruben Sierra was signed to
a look-and-see minor league contract Saturday? Even with Piazza,
these Mets have no punch especially in their outfield. And when
the pitching is not there and it was not there Saturday the
Mets are in trouble.
Nomo is now 2-8 with a 4.95 earned run average. As a Met, he is
0-1 with a 4.50 e.r.a. He allowed 7 hits Saturday in his 97 pitches
and has now allowed 73 hits in 832/3 innings. Most distressing this
season has been the walks, 50 of them in all, an average of 5.4 per
game.
Not only are more men buying more ties this year -- menswear
sales are up 6.7 percent nationwide -- but there's a return to the
power tie, which we last saw in the mid-'80s. Then it was a
pale-yellow silk print, and now it's a woven, 18-karat-gold-colored
design reflecting the renewed interest in luxury goods.
But ties, like hemlines, are only a gauge, and the world's
excitement over the end of the millennium has thrown market
watchers a curve.
He said the colored shirt with matching solid-color tie that was
so hot last year fueled the fire. But soda-pop colors like lime,
lavender and pale orange are cooling off, and deep jewel tones in
classic stripes and small prints -- still paired with blue or
earth-toned dress shirts -- are the big news now.
She attributed the overall trend to Kaiser's new management,
which has created a new-found pride in the workplace.
Power ties at Rocketdyne Propulsion Power in suburban Canoga
Park, which is now affiliated with Boeing, are also glowing in
gold, but shades of red still mean business, said company spokesman
Dan Beck. He was quick to add that Rocketdyne is not exactly a
tie-wearing company, but he wears one, and favors woven styles with
a '40s flavor.
Since it's a relatively casual atmosphere, anybody wearing his
best suit and power tie would make people suspicious that he had a
job interview at lunch, Beck added.
Rachel Gregory, a menswear buyer for Nordstrom stores, agreed
with Hall but said that in a creative or fashion field, she'd
expect prospective employees to be more edgy in their attire.
It's a concept that attorneys such as Christopher Keosian, a
civil litigation and bankruptcy attorney with Keosian Keosian of
Century City, near Beverly Hills, understand and utilize in their
client's best interest.
A plaintiff attorney, Keosian said he advises his clients to
dress similarly, making sure the tie isn't too flashy, such as a
polka-dot design, because it conveys a liberal, risky person. The
best choice? It's usually a conservative striped tie with a white
shirt.
The staple of preppy dressing, it was never designed to be worn
with elegant suits. Fashion experts will tell you it's meant to be
worn with summer seersuckers, navy-blue blazers and rep ties, or
worn tieless with khakis on casual Fridays.
While others have double-bogeyed, tripled-bogeyed, succumbed to
fits of frustration, or surrendered to the torturous conditions at
the Olympic Club, Stewart has found ways to persevere. When play
ended Saturday night, Stewart was the lone player under par, and he
had never worked so hard to keep a red number next to his name.
It has taken some of the best golf of Stewart's career to take a
four-stroke lead into Sunday's final round. And if Stewart can hold
on, after winning just once on the PGA Tour during the last seven
years, this victory would rank as his sweetest. Standing at
two-under-par 207 for the tournament after Saturday's even par
round of even-par 70, Stewart held a four-stroke lead over Tom
Lehman and Bob Tway.
Lee Janzen and Nick Price were tied for fourth place at two
over, still close enough to make a final-round charge, especially
if Stewart finally falters.
But those waiting for Stewart to succumb to the pressure may be
waiting a long time. Stewart was the last first-round leader to win
the U.S. Open, when he won in 1991 at Hazeltine National Golf Club
in Chaska, Minn. Stewart has led after all three rounds this year,
and after Saturday's steady performance, he seemed confident
heading into Sunday.
Yet Stewart will be chased by formidable players. The cream rose
to the top Saturday, and the top five contenders are all former
major winners. Lehman is the 1996 British Open champion. Tway won
the 1986 PGA Championship. Price has won four majors in his
brilliant career, most recently the 1994 PGA Championship. And
Janzen won the 1993 U.S. Open.
Lehman, who shot a 68 Saturday, will be the sentimental favorite
among the gallery. From 1995 through '97, Lehman ended the third
round of the U.S. Open either alone in first place, or tied for the
lead. Yet he has never won the championship that he wants the most,
and he sounded almost relieved that he will not start Sunday with
the lead again.
Starting the day at three under par, one stroke ahead of Tway
and Jeff Maggert, Stewart never lost the lead. He started with an
eagle on the first hole, reaching the par-5, 533-yard first hole in
two shots, then making an 8-foot putt. After a bogey on No. 3,
Stewart answered with a birdie on the par-3 No. 8, when he hit his
tee shot to within five feet, then made the birdie putt. Stewart
bogeyed No. 9 and No. 15, but he made pars the rest of the way.
Meanwhile, the competition was spinning its wheels just trying
to stay close. Maggert hurt his chances badly Saturday with a 75 to
fall three over par for the tournament. Tway had a chance to tie
Stewart for the lead at four under par, but he missed a birdie putt
on No. 6. Tway followed with a bogey on No. 7, then he missed the
fairway at No. 9, leading to a double-bogey that dropped him to
even par, and back with the rest of the contenders.
Janzen remained in the hunt after a 73 on Saturday, but he also
had a costly double-bogey (No. 17). Price was very steady, shooting
a 71 on Saturday, and keeping himself close enough to give himself
a chance on Sunday.
Many of the pre-tournament favorites will not win this weekend.
Ernie Els, the defending champion, is out of contention at 10 over
for the tournament. Phil Mickelson (eight over) will not win his
first major championship on Sunday, nor will David Duval (eight
over) or Colin Montgomerie (11 over). Tiger Woods (seven over par)
was well out of contention as well.
But on Saturday, he managed to regroup, making birdies on the
first three holes, then keeping his poise after making bogeys on
the next three. Lehman ended the day on a high note with a birdie
on No. 18, and he looked forward to another Sunday at the Open.
Yet so far, Stewart has battled his nerves and the course with
success. And if he could do it again, he would have a sweet reward.
Globe editors and librarians have reviewed 364 columns by Mike
Barnicle, dating back to January 1996. Where warranted, we have
verified identities of all people named as significant sources or
subjects, using various computer databases and discussions with the
writer.
Obviously there are limitations to any such review, but we
believe these columns met professional standards and we believe his
own assertions, published in Saturday's Globe, that this is so.
Mike Barnicle has written more than 3,500 columns for The Boston
Globe since 1973. His style has sometimes been controversial and he
has collected a good number of critics and enemies over the years.
But that does not justify linking him with the misdeeds of Patricia
Smith. For those who would attempt to do so, I would urge great
caution.
NEW YORK A Greyhound bus driver on his last scheduled run was
killed early on Saturday, along with his wife, his 8-year-old son,
and four other passengers, when their bus crashed into a
tractor-trailer parked on the Pennsylvania Turnpike.
The accident happened shortly after 4 a.m. on a mountainous,
rain-slicked part of the turnpike about 50 miles west of
Harrisburg, Pa. The bus, carrying 23 people from New York City to
Pittsburgh, crashed into the rear of a tractor-trailer parked on
the shoulder, near a tunnel. The accident injured 18 people,
including 2 who were asleep in the truck cab.
The names of the other victims, including Wisner's wife, who was
56, and his son, were not released. The authorities said some might
not be identified until Monday.
The injured included a 34-year-old man from Elmhurst, N.Y., who
was listed in critical condition at the Washington County Hospital,
in Hagerstown, Md. A hospital representative declined to reveal the
man's name. Another person was listed in stable condition at the
hospital and 16 were treated for minor injuries.
Late Saturday afternoon, the police were still investigating the
crash. Greyhound officials declined to speculate on a cause, but
dismissed a theory that the driver might have fallen sleep. The
officials said that the company followed strict federal highway
safety regulations that permit employees to drive only 10 hours in
a 24-hour period and 70 hours in an eight-day period.
A Greyhound spokesman, George Gravley, said Wisner's personnel
file had been sent to the National Transportation Safety Board,
which is investigating the accident along with a team from
Greyhound.
Wisner began his last run on Thursday night, when he drove from
Pittsburgh, his home base, to New York City. He arrived in New York
early Friday morning and spent 13 hours in the city before heading
out to Pittsburgh at 9 p.m. on Friday, Gravley said.
The tractor-trailer was parked on a wide shoulder, a mile west
of the Tuscarora Tunnel. The road was wet from rain earlier in the
morning. Lt. Richard Kovalik of the state police said it was common
practice, and legal, for trucks to pull off the road onto the
shoulder.
Scott Elarton's shot at winning his major-league debut got
caught up in a tangled mess created by the bullpen, but the elastic
Astros refused to break in their 22nd come-from-behind victory of
the season.
Hot-hitting Carl Everett's three-run double capped a four-run
eighth inning and sent the Astros on their way to a wacky 9-8
victory over the Cincinnati Reds Saturday afternoon at the
Astrodome. Billy Wagner surrendered two runs in the ninth but held
on for his 18th save of the season.
The Astros, who moved to 17 games over .500 for the first time
since 1994, have won 12 games in their last at-bat this season.
But this game hardly had the look of a typical Astros comeback
when Elarton, 22, left with a 5-2 lead and two runners on with one
out in the seventh. Instead of zapping the life out of the young
Reds, the Astros' bullpen resuscitated Cincinnati's hopes by
blowing the lead and putting the offense on call for more
late-inning magic.
Pinch hitters Craig Biggio and Ricky Gutierrez started the
eighth-inning rally. Biggio was hit by a pitch, and Gutierrez
singled, bringing Bill Spiers to the plate to face Rick Krivda
(0-1). Spiers brought Biggio home on a single to right, tying the
score at six.
Righthanded reliever Scott Sullivan got flyouts from Brad Ausmus
and Derek Bell before intentionally walking Jeff Bagwell to bring
Everett to the plate with the bases loaded. Reds manager Jack
McKeon summoned closer Jeff Shaw from the bullpen, but he was no
match for Everett, who is hitting .393 in his last 14 games.
If there was pressure on Elarton, he didn't bother to convey it
to the 24,301 fans, including several family members, who showed up
for his coming-out party. The rookie righthander pitched well
enough to win, holding the Reds to five hits in 6 innings while
striking out nine and walking just one.
Elarton retired 16 of the 25 batters he faced, setting down the
side in order in three innings. Dierker lifted him with the tying
run at the plate, assuring the rookie would get nothing worse than
a no-decision.
So Dierker put Elarton's fate in the hands of the bullpen, which
dropped it like a stick of dynamite. The Reds exploded for four
runs in the seventh, thanks in large part to an overall lack of
control by the Astros' bullpen, which allowed five hits, four runs,
two walks and a hit batsmen in its 2 innings.
Dierker needed three relievers to get out of the seventh inning.
Mike Magnante, who inherited runners at first and second, allowed a
single and bases-loaded walk to the two hitters he faced, and
Reggie Harris walked the only batter who stepped to the plate
against him, forcing in another run. C.J. Nitkowski (3-2), who
pitched a perfect eighth and got the win, allowed an RBI single to
Mike Frank to tie the score and with two out put the Reds ahead 6-5
by hitting Willie Greene with the bases full.
Elarton sat down the first four batters he faced with ease,
changing speeds and spotting the ball like a veteran. Dmitri
Young's second-inning double to center was the Reds' first hit of
the game, and Bret Boone singled him home to give Cincinnati a 1-0
lead.
The Astros put Elarton back in a comfort zone with four runs in
the third. Bell had an RBI single, and Bagwell connected for a
towering three-run homer off Reds starter Brett Tomko. It was
Bagwell's 12th home run of the season and the 199th of his career.
Barry Larkin's solo homer in the fourth brought the Reds within
4-2 before they took the lead during the Astros' seventh-inning
collapse.
The Reds made one final push in the ninth, getting two runs on
three hits against Wagner, who coaxed a double-play ball from
Greene to end the game.
ANAHEIM -- Steve Sparks has proven to be a mystery to the Texas
Rangers twice in the past week, and even his Angels teammates are
still trying to figure out where this guy came from.
The knuckleball pitcher gave up three runs and five hits in 6
1/3 innings to lead the Angels to an 8-3 victory over the Rangers
Saturday afternoon before 31,671 at Edison Field.
With the win, the Angels avoided falling behind the Rangers in
the A.L. West standings, instead increasing their lead to 1 1/2
games. Anaheim has won 17 of its last 20 games.
Sparks (2-0) made his Angels debut last Sunday in Texas and got
his first major league win in almost two years. But it didn't take
him nearly that long to get another.
After allowing three runs in the first inning -- two coming in
on Juan Gonzalez's 23rd homer -- Sparks settled down and held the
Rangers scoreless before being removed with one out in the seventh.
Meanwhile, the Angels took advantage of an erratic Todd Van
Poppel, the former No. 1 pick of the Oakland A's who began this
season in double-A. Van Poppel (0-1) lasted only two-plus innings
and got the loss. He gave up four runs and five hits, walking five.
Erstad hit Van Poppel's first big league pitch since Sept. 27,
1996 off the right field foul pole for a first-inning home run, and
the Angels didn't stop there. Dave Hollins (two-run double in the
third) and Phil Nevin (two-run single in the eighth) had the
Angels' other big hits.
However, the day belonged to Sparks, who didn't figure to be
much a part of this Angels team. But with injuries to three
starting pitchers, Sparks became the Angels' best option.
He missed all of 1997 as he recovered from reconstructive elbow
surgery, but was 0-8 in the minors this season. However, other than
his record, his numbers weren't that bad, and manager Terry Collins
noticed.
The key for Sparks on Saturday was that the Angels were able to
rally from a 3-0 deficit. They scored three in the bottom of the
first and three more in the third to go up, 6-3. With a lead,
Sparks didn't have to be so careful with his pitches, which helps
him avoid giving up too many walks. Sparks walked four in the first
three innings, but none after that.
He is a side-arm left-hander who has been with the organization
since 1995, but as he sat on the team bus waiting to go to the
ballpark, he looked like the rest of the organization not sure
what he was doing there.
Turns out Brunson was brought up late Friday from Triple-A to
take the place of Bobby Bonilla, who went on the 15-day disabled
list with a viral infection. Bonilla has been hospitalized and
isn't expected to be released until Monday.
On a lesser scale, Brunson was similar to his new manager Bill
Russell, who is wading through an on-field mess while hearing there
is a pink slip awaiting him at home.
Everyone from clubhouse guys to broadcasters to middle relievers
are starting to check their 401K plans to see if they are secure
financially.
To say the new Fox-run Dodgers are in transition is like saying
Ramon Martinez has a sore arm. Although the sale of the team was
approved in March, there has been a lot of denial until now.
Meanwhile, no leadership has emerged from the blockbuster trade
that sent Mike Piazza out of town, but if you believe talk radio,
he's going to re-sign with the Dodgers in the winter.
Gary Sheffield is a splendid player, but too quiet to steer this
ship. Raul Mondesi looks great in center, less great on a side
street in Glendale at 2 in the morning. Eric Young has had a bad
leg for a month, making that four-year, $18.5 million contract at
the expense of acquiring a closer questionable.
Thursday, he said making any trades would have to be cleared
with club president Bob Graziano and the Fox people.
If that isn't confusing enough, many people in the organization
believe former manager Tom Lasorda, in an attempt to regain some
power, has been planting stories about Russell's firing to
illustrate the chaos.
Lasorda's relationship with Claire never was very good. Russell
used to be a loyal servant and late-night eating buddier once said
left-hander Omar Daal could be the next Mike Cuellar. Just more of
that Greg Brock/Duke Snider nonsense.
But Didier, now director of player personnel for Arizona, might
be on to something with Daal, the former Dodgers farmhand, although
Cuellar won 20 games four times with Baltimore and the 1969 Cy
Young Award.
Daal, who starts for Arizona today at St. Louis, had a
career-high nine strikeouts and a shutout through eight innings in
a 5-1 victory Tuesday night at Cincinnati, his first career
complete game. In his previous start, he beat the Angels 4-1 on
four hits in eight innings.
Daal's 2.82 ERA would be tied with the Mets' Mosato Yoshii for
No. 10 in the National League, but he was 101/3 innings short of
qualifying.
The Diamondbacks selected Daal in the second round of the
expansion draft as a starter, but he could not beat out Joel
Adamson in the spring and began the season in the bullpen, entering
the rotation May 5 after Adamson suffered a shoulder injury.
Arizona is 5-3 in his eight starts.
Daal has taken awhile to get here, going 10-2 in the winter
league in his native Venezuela in 1995-96 and 9-1 in 1996-97 as a
starter. Before this year, he had nine previous career starts in
parts of six big-league seasons with the Dodgers and Montreal
Expos.
Reed can't be replaced: Under normal circumstances, Mets
right-hander Rick Reed would be an easy All-Star selection for
Marlins manager Jim Leyland, especially after Reed had a perfect
game for six innings Friday against Florida.
But the issue isn't his numbers. It's the lingering memory of
his role as a replacement player with the Cincinnati Reds in 1995.
Reed is 8-3 with a 2.38 ERA, fourth-best place in the NL,
although those aren't even his best numbers. Reed is second in
batting average against (.205), walks per nine innings (1.6) and
on-base percentage against (.243). He trails only Greg Maddux and
teammate Al Leiter in slugging percentage allowed with a .307 mark.
Reed is second in hits per innings (.74) and baserunners per nine
innings (8.3 to Maddux's 8.1).
His strikeouts-to-walks ratio is 3.94 (67:17), which is third
behind Maddux and Curt Schilling, and in walks per nine innings
he's fourth at 1.64.
Bagwell, the former NL MVP, hit only .247 in April and .234 in
May and was hitting less than .200 with runners in scoring position
until the past two weeks. Bell hit .398 in April but dropped off to
hit only .208 during May. Now both appear to be on the verge of
getting going.
When Bagwell returned from the disabled list, Astros manager
Larry Dierker inserted Bill Spiers in the second spot in the order,
and dropped Bell to third, Bagwell to cleanup and Moises Alou
(.325) to fifth.
What happened?: When Cincinnati's Brett Tomko defeated the
Dodgers late last season and again during the first weekend in
April, he looked like a budding star. His manager, Jack McKeon,
said Tomko had the stuff to win 20 this year, just his second in
the majors.
That, however, hasn't happened. After giving up six runs in 21/3
innings Monday in a 13-2 loss to Houston, Tomko entered his
Saturday start against the Astros 5-6 with a 5.03 ERA. A little
more than a month ago, he was 5-1 with a 2.98 ERA.
Tomko also has given up 10 home runs in his last nine starts. He
allowed only one in his first five. In his last six outings, which
includes five losses and a no-decision, Tomko has given up 32 runs
(30 earned) in 301/3 innings an 8.90 ERA. He hasn't won since May
13.
Tomko has worked to improve his shaken confidence by reading a
book on the mental art of pitching, but it hasn't been easy.
For his part, McKeon maintains his belief in the pitcher the
Reds believe will eventually mature into a real ace.
Robin could fly: Robin Ventura could be entering the final six
weeks of his White Sox career. But if the Sox plan to trade the
potential free-agent third baseman, general manager Ron Schueler
isn't saying.
Despite Schueler's position, the White Sox have made no attempt
to re-sign Ventura. His agent, Johnny Boggs, said he has not had
any contact with owner Jerry Reinsdorf or the Sox since an
unproductive meeting in spring training. Ventura is believed to be
seeking a four-year deal for $32 million.
Lehman, who frittered away the 54-hole lead at the past three
U.S. Opens, finds himself in position at the Olympic Club to win
again. With a five-birdie, three-bogey 68 that matched the lowest
score in yesterday's third round, Lehman will play in the final
twosome at the Open for a fourth consecutive year.
But this time, he will play the role of the hunter instead of
the hunted. Lehman, at 1-over par, stands four strokes behind
leader Payne Stewart, who remains the only player under par (3
under) through 54 holes at the 6,797-yard, par-70 layout.
The role reversal, he said, could prove beneficial. But Lehman
downplays suggestions that he is overdue to win an Open after
finishing third, second and third, respectively, the past three
years.
Instead, Lehman relishes the chance to be the one playing with
nothing to lose during the final round at the Open while someone
else handles the mounting pressure of maintaining a lead.
It proved to be more than Lehman could handle at Shinnecock
Hills Golf Club (1995), Oakland Hills Country Club (1996) or
Congressional Country Club (1997), where the former Colonial champ
burst from the pack with third-round efforts of 67, 65 and 68,
respectively. Factor in yesterday's effort and LehmanUs third-round
scoring average for the past four years is 67.
His average final-round score for the past three years, on the
other hand, is 72.7. Playing without pressure, Lehman hopes, will
help him close with an effort more like the one he turned in
yesterday.
Lehman started with three consecutive birdies, all after
approach shots inside 15 feet. Over the next three holes, he
surrendered all three strokes, taking bogeys after drives into the
rough. But he rebounded with a chip-in birdie at No. 14, followed
by a six-foot birdie putt at No. 18.
That one, he said, was especially crucial from a mental
standpoint after four-putting the 18th green to conclude his second
round.
When Robinson's crosschecks of voter registration records,
telephone databases, the Registry of Motor Vehicles and other
sources did not turn up some individuals mentioned in the columns,
top editors decided it was time to discuss the matter with Smith.
So Moore set up a lunch at 1:30 p.m. last Wednesday at the Royal
Sonesta Hotel in Cambridge.
In the course of two hours, Moore said, Smith went from
defensive to silent and finally to reflective. She admitted that
four of the people were figments of her imagination.
The four fabricated characters include: the cancer patient
Claire; a worker named Jim Burke who was erecting barricades for
the Boston Marathon; a cosmetologist named Janine Byrne, who was
commenting on the case of kidnapping defendant Stephen Fagan; and a
woman named Dorothy Gibson whose young daughter was getting a
painful hair makeover for Easter. Burke and Byrne are basically
supporting characters in those columns, but Claire was the heart of
the column and the fact that Gibson didn't exist cast doubt on the
entirety of that column. All four columns were published in April
and May of this year.
When Moore returned from his meeting with Smith on Wednesday
afternoon, a top-level meeting was convened with him, Storin,
Donovan, Mulvoy and Managing Editor/Administration Louisa Williams.
At that point, the decision was made to seek Smith's resignation,
address the staff, and publish a story explaining what had
happened.
But questions about whether Barnicle embellishes his column have
percolated over the years, with matters really heating up in the
early '90s. A primary catalyst was Dershowitz's charge that
Barnicle had manufactured a sexist and boorish quote about him in
1990. When the Harvard law professor went on television at that
time to invite anyone else who'd been similarly treated to step
forward, it unearthed the story of a Dorchester gas station
proprietor who sued for libel over a 1973 column, claiming that
he'd never made a racist statement Barnicle attributed to him. The
case had ended with the Globe paying the plaintiff a total of about
$40,000.
(In the wake of a Globe review of all of Barnicle's columns
since 1996, Storin Saturday expressed confidence in Barnicle's
integrity. (See accompanying story, Page A28)).
But it seems clear that Storin who left the Globe in 1985,
returned in 1992 and became editor in 1993 was concerned about
Barnicle's reputation when questions about Smith's 1995 columns
first came to his attention.
When Assistant Managing Editor Walter V. Robinson, who initially
flagged the possible 1995 Smith fabrications, identified new
concerns earlier this year, it triggered the chain of events that
ended with Smith's stunning departure.
There was also one nagging item from Smith's past when she was
an editorial assistant at the Chicago Sun-Times. According to Globe
Arts Editor Scott Powers, who was then assistant managing editor
for features at the Sun-Times, errors in a Smith review and the
fact that she did not pick up her press tickets generated
suspicions that she did not attend an Elton John concert she wrote
about in 1986. According to Powers, Smith insisted she had attended
the concert, decided to use lawn tickets purchased by a friend, and
produced notes from the event. There was never any proof or finding
that she missed the concert. But the Sun-Times published a
correction about song titles and John's attire and Smith was barred
from writing for several months.
LYON, France Iran's soccer coach carries a green card from the
Great Satan. Jalal Talebi's family has lived in California for
nearly two decades. His youngest son just graduated from Palo Alto
High and is bound for UCLA. His wife has a skin care business and a
vegetarian restaurant near Stanford. Talebi used to coach at a
local junior college. He likes America and Americans.
But all week long, people have been bringing up 1979 to him.
America Held Hostage. Iran, the outlaw state. Revolution, war,
terrorism, embargos, fractured relations between Washington and
Tehran. It all comes back because somebody pulled two balls out of
a bowl last December and matched the US and Iran in a World Cup
soccer match here Sunday.
And yet, for many of Talebi's countrymen back home, it is much
more. Though the two governments have been edging closer to
normalcy, nudged last week by Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright, Uncle Sam is still widely regarded with hatred and
mistrust in Iran.
So an Iranian victory in the Stade Gerland Sunday (it's a night
game here in France) would all but knock the US out of the world's
most important sporting event and be a coup of enormous symbolic
and emotional significance.
Sunday's match, the first ever between the US and Iran, is being
touted as a bit of political serendipity, bringing two together
countries that have had no diplomatic relations for nearly two
decades.
After 20 years away from soccer's global stage, the Iranians are
delighted merely to be here. Iran was Asia's dominant team in the
'70s, winning three continental championships and qualifying for
the 1976 Olympics and the 1978 World Cup. Then the revolution and
the Iraq war brought soccer in Iran to a halt.
Talebi settled his family in San Jose, opened a supermarket and
took a coaching job at De Anza community college. While the Islamic
government back home railed against the Great Satan, Talebi felt
welcome as an Iranian in the States.
For Talebi, the serendipity is not that his country is playing
America but that his country is playing in the Cup at all.
The Iranians are here by a near-miracle. They did not win their
qualifying group last year. They could not beat Japan in the Asian
playoff. They could not beat Australia at home in the first match
of their last-chance playoff and trailed, 2-0, with 14 minutes left
in the return match at Melbourne. Somehow, the Iranians pulled off
a draw and got a ticket to France because they had scored more road
goals.
Whatever happens inside the Stade Gerland Sunday, the Iranians
plan to shake hands with the Americans after the final whistle and
exchange jerseys.
Much of the international noise over the match hasn't reached
the players. The Iranian team has been secluded in a bakery school
in Yssingeaux, a 90-minute drive southwest of the city. The
American team is quartered in an ivy-covered chateau in the wine
country an hour's drive north.
The players know each other by reputation and by jersey number.
They're vaguely aware of the recent diplomatic dance steps between
their governments. But for most of them, what happened in 1979 is
hazy history.
Some 20 years later, 22 men from the United States and Iran will
march onto a small patch of grass in France, many of them hardly
able to remember the details of the 1979 international crisis.
They will arrive to an entirely different corner of the world, a
snug little French city called Lyon, which is known for tempting
wines and quaint sidewalk cafes.
They will be bound only by their nation's political pasts and
the ramifications tied to this day for more than six months.
And the only thing at their feet will be a soccer ball, which
they all know is in the same shape as the world.
Players and coaches from both sides have known the factors
involved in today's game for months. Only recently has the game
become even more pertinent in a World Cup sense both teams need a
victory to keep hopes alive for advancing in the tournament.
For 90 minutes today in Lyon, the world will watch the United
States and Iran battle on a soccer field not just because of things
like the Group F standings, the opportunity of earning points in
the round-robin and putting on a display of terrific soccer.
The world surely will watch as much because of what was put on
display nearly 20 years ago in Tehran, the 444 terroristic days,
the tense history and lingering ill feelings by people of both
nations.
In truth, the painful and bitter feelings between the nations
hardly have tempered over the years.
Diplomatic relations between the nations remain severed and it
was not until last week, perhaps in an effort to ease pressures for
today's game, that U.S. government officials even hinted at
relaxing its strong stance against Iran.
Both President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright
addressed the U.S.-Iran game last week, using the opportunity to
mention the possible resumption of diplomatic relations with Iran.
Still, last month the U.S. State Department called Iran the
world's most active sponsor of terrorism and the Iranian government
has made no secret of its involvement in the game. National
officials will be present in the stadium today and all business
activity is expected to be suspended in Iran during the game.
The Iranian government also condemned a French television
station's showing of the movie Not Without My Daughter, which it
said depicts Iranians in a negative light. The government even
briefly hinted at pulling its team from the World Cup.
Meanwhile, in the middle of it all are the players and coaches,
the majority of whom have announced that they will try to spurn
FIFA's World Cup edict of immediately leaving the field in favor of
an age-old soccer tradition trading jerseys at the final whistle.
Of course. But today the world will watch these nations play
soccer because of the way things were from 1979-1981 and what it
has done to these political nemeses since.
SAN FRANCISCO Fort Worth resident Mark Brooks watched his
chance to move into contention during the third round disappear
with a triple bogey at the 288-yard seventh hole, the shortest
par-4 at the Olympic Club.
Brooks pulled his drive into a bush, forcing him to take an
unplayable lie. His recovery shot kicked into the rough and Brooks
eventually three-putted for a seven. After playing the first six
holes at even par, Brooks was 6 over on the final 12, dropping to
12 over for the tournament.
Brooks' third-round highlight proved to be an 18-foot chip-in
for birdie from the rough surrounding the 13th green.
Tiger Woods, meanwhile, opened with a birdie and did not take
another in his final 17 holes. He registered consecutive bogeys at
Nos. 3 and 4, then parred in to shoot 71 and drop to 7 over.
Woods, who did not three-putt during his victory at the 1997
Masters, has two four-putts and three three-putts on his card at
the 1998 Open.
Rolling with Casey Perhaps appropriately, disabled golfer Casey
Martin played the third round with the only player in the field who
might have an inkling of what his physical condition would be like:
Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal.
Olazabal's career was presumed over in 1996, when he was unable
to walk 18 holes without severe pain because of what was initially
diagnosed as severe arthritis. Eventually, Olazabal's condition
improved and he returned to the European Tour in 1997 after an
18-month absence.
Martin, who suffers from a rare circulatory disorder that makes
it difficult for him to walk, was granted a federal court order in
February allowing him to use a cart in competition at professional
events.
Chris Perry recorded the first hole-in-one of the tournament by
knocking a 6-iron into the cup at the 176-yard 13th hole. It marked
his third career ace in tournament competition but his first at the
Open.
On occasion, the Rev. Jack Spaulding of St. Thomas the Apostle
Church in Phoenix has delivered messages during prayer services in
a monotone voice, in the first person, as if Jesus or Mary were
speaking directly through him.
I confess, I didn't ask him. A man can't escape a boyhood spent
in parochial school, where he leaned the hard way not to be
flip with priests or nuns.
He also learned, however, that people make a church, not build
ings. And the nuns at St. Thomas are being forced out of their
convent for no good, and certainly no holy reason.
The church sits like a birthday cake at 24th Street and
Campbell, a monument to spiritual chic since Charlie Keating poured
$50,000 into the place to spruce it up for a family wedding.
Benedictine sisters began teach ing at the parish school 45
years ago. That's why the convent was built. Over the years, the
church and the school changed. There's only one Benedictine
teaching in the school, now. The convent houses 12 nuns, four of
them Benedictines and the rest from other orders. `CHOSE CONVENT LIFE' 
According to Ella Mae Bleier, a member of the parish council,
the growing church needs room to expand.
Plans originally had called for temporary buildings to be
installed for use next year by the school. In May, however, Father
Spaulding informed the nuns of a new idea. A house was available
for sale across the street and it was big enough, he said, to
accommodate the four Benedictine sisters. The convent would then be
converted to church use.
Since the other nuns aren't part of the order that first taught
at the school, parish officials say they have no obligation to
accommodate them.
Still, the pastor promised to help the other sisters. In the
meantime, the Benedictines decided not to live in the new house.
They also said no to having an upstairs portion of the parish
offices renovated specially for them. They did so partly because
the facilities didn't meet their needs and partly as a show of
solidarity.
In some Catholic dioceses, nuns being displaced are given a year
to make arrangements. Phoenix doesn't have such a policy, although
I'm told one is now being considered.
Three months. Six months. A year. It doesn't matter. A nun told
me, years ago, that we should only discard our bad habits. We don't
need another denomination that chooses economical over ecumeni cal.
We already have houses of worship called General Motors, Mi crosoft
and ATT.
Ella Mae Bleier said the parish did all it could for the nuns.
There are no bad guys in this conflict, she told me.
Maybe so. But, if the Lord really does speak through Father
Spauld ing, I hope He takes a moment soon to retell a story I first
heard from a nun. It's about a nice young couple and their baby
boy.
And how there was no room for them at the inn. E.J. Montini can be reached at 444-8978 or at ed.montini pni.com
via e-mail. 
But Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie and officials of the
National Thoroughbred Racing Association are already trying to
determine how the product can be improved next year.
Sellers kept his momentum going yesterday, too, riding Colcon to
a perfectly timed come-from-behind victory in the Locust Grove
Handicap at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., a $150,000 race.
The attendance of 16,156 for the All-Star competition was almost
1,000 more than last year, and betting was up, too. Lone Star fans
wagered nearly $700,000 just on the four All-Star races, and
out-of-town simulcast sites pumped in an extra $1.89 million.
The new All-Star Wager grossed only $109,000 in betting
nationwide, almost half of that at Lone Star, but the generous
payoffs almost guarantee it receives more attention next year. The
predictable $2 trifecta of Sellers, Julie Krone and Jerry Bailey
paid $670.60.
Next year, Johnsen says the local events surrounding the
All-Star evening could be bolstered, perhaps with a golf tournament
or an expanded luncheon. And someday, he said, a foreign jockey
such as Frankie Dettori or Texas native Cash Asmussen could be
invited to participate.
Mastery's Gamble, who three weeks ago at Lone Star breezed to a
6 3/4-length front-running victory at seven furlongs in the Two
Altazano Stakes, showed her heels to Texas-bred females again
yesterday going a mile.
The 6-year-old mare set an easy pace, turned back a challenge by
rival Two Steppin' Toni entering the stretch, and opened up to win
the $50,000 Texas Legends Stakes by 3 1/4 lengths.
Fortunate Smile, the Texas-bred ship-in from Massachusetts who
went to post at the same 3-to-2 odds as Mastery's Gamble, faltered
in the 100-degree heat and finished last in the five-horse field. SHOWDOWN IN DOUBT 
Skip Away and Gentlemen perhaps the two best older horses in
training were already being pointed for the $1 million race at
Hollywood Park in Inglewood, Calif. And on Friday, trainer Bob
Baffert announced that Silver Charm will probably also run.
But as is usually the case in horse racing, there are no sure
things.
On the same day Baffert revealed his decision, Skip Away threw
his exercise rider at Belmont Park and ran loose for 20 minutes.
Yesterday his front legs were slightly swollen, although he was not
lame or sore, trainer Sonny Hine said.
For months, Hine has been savoring a meeting with Silver Charm.
Now he doesn't know what will happen.
On occasion, the Rev. Jack Spaulding of St. Thomas the Apostle
Church in Phoenix has delivered messages during prayer services in
a monotone voice, in the first person, as if Jesus or Mary were
speaking directly through him.
I confess, I didn't ask him. A man can't escape a boyhood spent
in parochial school, where he leaned the hard way not to be
flip with priests or nuns.
He also learned, however, that people make a church, not build
ings. And the nuns at St. Thomas are being forced out of their
convent for no good, and certainly no holy reason.
The church sits like a birthday cake at 24th Street and
Campbell, a monument to spiritual chic since Charlie Keating poured
$50,000 into the place to spruce it up for a family wedding.
Benedictine sisters began teach ing at the parish school 45
years ago. That's why the convent was built. Over the years, the
church and the school changed. There's only one Benedictine
teaching in the school, now. The convent houses 12 nuns, four of
them Benedictines and the rest from other orders. `CHOSE CONVENT LIFE' 
According to Ella Mae Bleier, a member of the parish council,
the growing church needs room to expand.
Plans originally had called for temporary buildings to be
installed for use next year by the school. In May, however, Father
Spaulding informed the nuns of a new idea. A house was available
for sale across the street and it was big enough, he said, to
accommodate the four Benedictine sisters. The convent would then be
converted to church use.
Since the other nuns aren't part of the order that first taught
at the school, parish officials say they have no obligation to
accommodate them.
Still, the pastor promised to help the other sisters. In the
meantime, the Benedictines decided not to live in the new house.
They also said no to having an upstairs portion of the parish
offices renovated specially for them. They did so partly because
the facilities didn't meet their needs and partly as a show of
solidarity.
In some Catholic dioceses, nuns being displaced are given a year
to make arrangements. Phoenix doesn't have such a policy, although
I'm told one is now being considered.
Three months. Six months. A year. It doesn't matter. A nun told
me, years ago, that we should only discard our bad habits. We don't
need another denomination that chooses economical over ecumeni cal.
We already have houses of worship called General Motors, Mi crosoft
and ATT.
Ella Mae Bleier said the parish did all it could for the nuns.
There are no bad guys in this conflict, she told me.
Maybe so. But, if the Lord really does speak through Father
Spauld ing, I hope He takes a moment soon to retell a story I first
heard from a nun. It's about a nice young couple and their baby
boy.
And how there was no room for them at the inn. E.J. Montini can be reached at 444-8978 or at ed.montini pni.com
via e-mail. 
MONTREAL John Smoltz's return to action went perfectly and
precisely to the pitch Saturday night. Working seven strong and
pain-free innings, Smoltz gave up just an unearned run and struck
out a season-high eight as the Braves beat Montreal 5-1.
In his first start since lasting just two innings May 23 and
then going on the disabled list for the second time this season,
Smoltz displayed no pain in his pitching elbow and little for the
Expos to hit. He was much sharper than in his two minor-league
rehab assignments and got a first-inning, three-run homer from Javy
Lopez. Working on a 90-pitch limit, Smoltz (5-1) left after giving
up just four hits and registering his last strikeout on his 90th
pitch.
Lopez quickly complied. After Walt Weiss led off the night with
the first of his three straight singles and Chipper Jones singled
Weiss to second, both players advanced when Carlos Perez stumbled
in his delivery, fell off the mound and dropped the ball for a
balk. On the next pitch, Lopez crushed a two-out, three-run homer.
It was Lopez's 16th home run, a figure he didn't reach last
season until July 26th. It was also his fourth homer against the
Expos, third in eight days. And it gave him 52 RBIs, just 17 shy of
his career season high.
It also gave Smoltz an early three-run security blanket. Not
that he needed it. After the second Expo batter, Jose Vidro, lined
an opposite-field double on a good down-and-away breaking ball,
Smoltz retired the next 11 hitters. At one point, he struck out six
of eight, fanning the side swinging in the third inning.
When Montreal finally broke through in the fifth, it was an
unearned run. After Chipper Jones' booted Rondell White's leadoff
grounder for a two-base error, White took third on a flyout, then
scored on Chris Widger's sacrifice fly. But that merely cut it to
5-1.
Gerald Williams, again capitalizing on another rare start,
followed Weiss' leadoff single in the fifth with the second of his
three singles. Chipper Jones, scratched from Friday's embarrassing
14-1 loss with the flu, then doubled both Braves home.
His new left-handed rifle. A shooter depends on his eye the way
a kicker does his leg. But the freak accident forced Shank to
switch the eye he uses to sight the target and, by extension, shoot
from the left side of his body.
After a 10-month layoff, Shank returned to the sport a year ago
and placed fourth at the Junior Olympics three months ago.
Just as he had to switch from right to left, Shank also
transferred his longtime wish of attending West Point to the
reality of entering the Naval Academy, which recruited him for its
rifle team.
For three months after the accident, Shank couldn't see at all.
He spent the first two weeks on the couch deep in thought, but not
self-pity, even though he knew if he'd worn his glasses and not his
contacts, he would've been fine.
Shank never doubted he'd be able to see again. Looking at his
brown eyes, there's no way for an outsider to tell which one has
the implanted lens.
Shank, who got his first gun at age 6 and shot at GI Joes, golf
balls and pop cans, will report to Annapolis next month with a
medical waiver. He jokes that he won't be a fighter pilot, but
that's OK, because he's more interested in engineering and physics.
Shank has worked long hours with O'Connor this week to make up
for a month spent getting into shape for the academy.
He hopes to score 590 out of 600 during the 1 hour and 45
minutes he has to record 60 shots.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Leave it to Jack Nicklaus to put the U.S. Open
in perspective, while all about him there is much wailing, groaning
and gnashing of teeth. A pro from Ashtabula, who also owns cart
rights and runs weekend dog fights, snarls about the narrow
fairways. A reformed alcoholic, and assorted other tour types,
complain about pin placements.
Nicklaus had just come in Friday from sinking a putt from here
to Rhode Island, on the 18th green, damned and cursed by a chorus
of bellyachers, that kept him in town two more days. He'd made the
cut in the U.S. Open at The Olympic Club, playing with an honorary
exemption, assailed by Frank Hannigan, who left the USGA for TV, as
out of order. In this field of all the best, playing for the
championship of the nation, on a course that would bring a Marine
to his knees, the Old Man was going the distance.
What this did was send him out Saturday morning with a large
body, 230 pounds of vagabond pro from Illinois named Tom Sipula, a
qualifier who plays the Canadian Tour without distinction. Sipula
said he wasn't awed by the pairing, but he started out bogey,
bogey, double bogey and never recovered. Nicklaus beat him by
three. Nicklaus had squeaked in under the wire at 147. A pro from
Oklahoma, Rocky Walcher, had made a par putt on the treacherous
18th green for the same number, and that lopped off 15 other
players, including Tom Watson, Corey Pavin and Hale Irwin, all at
148. An even 60 players made the cut, the USGA standard.
Now a winner of the British Open, he has been knocking on the
door of this championship for four years, but nobody answered. He
began this round as hot as a Savannah summer. Chipped to three feet
on the first hole, to three feet on the second, and put his tee
shot 10 feet from the pin on the third. He missed the next three
fairways. Three birdies followed by three bogeys.
Gradually during the Pacific afternoon, red figures dropped from
the leaderboard. Matt Kuchar, the kid with the fetching smile,
disappeared completely in the jaws of a 76. Lehman and Bob Tway,
who formed his game at Atlanta Country Club, were left to chase
Payne Stewart, who has now been out front at each sundown.
SAN FRANCISCO It's a story that Boys' Life would not publish.
It's fiction so far-fetched, you'd send the Hardy Boys into
gut-breaking laughter. Surely, the schmaltz police would surround
you.
OK, just for laughs, can you run that by me again? You say the
kid, a gangly golfer who grins more than a guilty politician, turns
20 on Father's Day while he's playing in a U.S. Open as an amateur
and beating many of the world's best players? Are you serious?
Granted, he's the U.S. Amateur champion from Georgia Tech and
arguably the best college player in the nation, but what's that? A
final round on Father's Day, with his father, Peter, on his bag?
As a rule, Kuchar had been following double-bogeys with birdies,
and staying cooler than the ocean breeze. As a matter of fact,
after playing two days with Kuchar, defending champion Ernie Els
was ready to say the kid would be right there today, with a
mind-boggling reason to remember a 20th birthday and Father's Day,
1998.
It's no surprise that Kuchar proudly defends his father. Peter,
the insurance and investment man from Lake Mary, Fla., is living
every dad's dream, having caddied for his son during an Amateur
victory and now in two majors. While Kuchar obviously draws
inspiration and finds a calm from his presence, it's Dad who gets
so demonstrative by cheering, jumping and college-type high-fives
that he occasionally disturbs fellow caddies and players.
That a son doesn't care to rob his father of a lifetime thrill,
regardless that he gets carried away, only adds to the son's
character.
Fun is the optimum word for both Matt and his Dad. It is costing
Peter about $30,000 to play around the world this summer they are
in Scotland for the Loch Lomond Invitational in two weeks, followed
by the British Open in England but surely it will return to the
family kitty in the near future. How near is the real question. For
the first time, Matt is waffling a bit when asked about the pro
issue. College is fun, yes, and he has two years remaining. But a
lot has happened lately. It's obvious he can play with these guys,
or outplay them. He began the third round seven shots ahead of
Tiger Woods.
The death of Professor Jonathon William Faulkner was accompanied
by a curious inheritance left to his students: $1 million for the
one who could solve a mystery hidden in his 10-room mansion.
With that fictional premise, a Scottsdale company lured
thousands of computer sleuths into buying a $50 game and
competing in an arduous contest that promised $1 million to the
real-life winner.
The twist has sent angry players of the Treasure Quest software
game on a new mission trying to find out whether the
award-winning games is as bogus as Professor Faulkner's will.
The game is based on the mystery left behind by Professor
Faulkner, as revealed in a series of computer screens. Players face
a labyrinth of about 1,200 clues involving word and number riddles
tapping everything from ancient Hebrew letters to Morse code to
literary quotations.
In addition to solving the puzzle, winners were required to
submit an essay of at least 1,000 words explaining their answer.
Telephone operators list only one Dreizen in San Francisco Pamela. She did not respond to a phone message, and computer
searches under that name lead nowhere.
Gnant said P. Dreizen asked not to be identified further. He
added that game rules don't require the winner to go public, and he
is morally bound to respect Dreizen's request.
Gnant said he didn't release the winning essay because Dreizen
asked him not to, and because it contains personal information.
Still, Gnant refused to answer basic questions such as: How many
people were on the winning team? Is Dreizen male or female? When
was the winning entry submitted?
That date is critical to players who say they came up with the
mystery answer more than a year ago.
This week, Gnant acknowledged that Wigowsky solved the riddle
before Dreizen, but was disqualified because he did not place a
contest registration number in the appropriate place.
He said there was no celebration of the final results because
his company has switched from computer games to CD-ROM movies, and
he didn't want to spend money on a victory bash. SKEPTICS UNSATISFIED 
Bill Boucher, a Colchester, Vt., postal supervisor who spent
vacations working the puzzle, said Treasure Quest is so complex
that no one could solve it alone, yet the winner's name never
surfaced during two years of chat room exchanges.
In fact, he is one of several players who shifted their
attention from the game mystery to Sirius business.
Among their discoveries, confirmed by Gnant: The publishing
company has cut its staff from 80 employees to 25, closed its
headquarters and moved operations into a warehouse. Gnant said
those moves reflect Sirius' new direction, not financial problems.
James Beckett, a 62-year-old retiree from Corning, N.Y., found a
1991 commercial bankruptcy involving another Gnant business,
Express Technologies Inc., and lawsuits against Sirius alleging
unpaid debts. Gnant said the complaints arose from disputes with
suppliers over unsatisfactory products.
Suspicion about the winner also stems from a dispute over key
literary quotes used in solving the riddle. Wigowsky and others say
the phrases contain errors. Gnant denies there are mistakes and
complains that every bit of information he gives out gets twisted:
Disgruntled players plastered Web sites and discussion rooms
with questions, conspiracy theories and a mock game called Treasure
Quash. At least one man logged a complaint with Internet Fraud
Watch.
Beckett said he assumed the game was legitimate because of the
accolades and media hoopla. But problems soon emerged when the
Treasure Quest mastermind, Cerise Casper of Washington, sued Sirius
Publishing over a contract dispute. Before that case was settled
for an undisclosed sum, Casper reportedly made computer contact
with Treasure Quest participants.
DALLAS For a brief moment yesterday afternoon, Houston Rockets
center Hakeem Olajuwon allowed himself to wonder how different his
career would have turned out had Michael Jordan been his teammate.
Before the 1984 NBA draft, Ray Patterson general manager of
the Rockets came close to trading Ralph Sampson to Chicago for
the third pick of the '84 draft, which belonged to the Bulls. The
Rockets used the top pick that year to take Olajuwon.
The Bulls used the third pick to draft Jordan. Just imagine how
the NBA landscape would have changed had Olajuwon and Jordan been
teammates.
Olajuwon was in Dallas at Don Carter's All-Star Bowling Lanes to
participate in a celebrity bowling tournament staged by Holy Land
Foundation. The foundation helps raise money for orphan
sponsorships, the homeless and scholarship programs.
Lately, critics have said that if Jordan hadn't left the NBA to
play baseball, the Bulls would have also won NBA titles in 1994 and
'95 the years the Rockets were league champions. Olajuwon said
such statements are absurd.
Between them, the Bulls and Rockets have won the past eight NBA
titles. But they've never met in the NBA Finals. It's a matchup
Olajuwon believes would be intriguing.
Olajuwon, 35, is bracing for the NBA's second lockout in three
years. The NBA and the NBA Players Association are trying to
negotiate a contract, and a lockout will likely be imposed unless a
deal is struck by July 1.
The Rockets have the 14th, 16th and 18th picks in Wednesday's
NBA draft, and Olajuwon said it's imperative that the picks are
used wisely.
Olajuwon will have a magnetic resonance imaging exam on his
right knee next month, with hopes of clearing up problems that led
to the least-productive season of his 14-year career. He had
surgery on his left knee this season, forcing him to miss a
career-high 35 games, and leading to him averaging career-lows in
scoring (16.4)) and field-goal percentage (.483).
ATLANTA -- Barring great fortune, the draft no longer is the way
to build a strong team in the NBA, and the next edition on
Wednesday bears testimony to that.
Of course, under current rules, a player drafted Wednesday can
become a free agent after three seasons, or about the time he
starts to blossom as a player. That's one of the changes the NBA
wants in its working agreement with the players association. Teams
are asking for options that will add two or three more seasons to a
rookie contract. That would serve to hold down salaries of young
players and also protect the investments of teams that are
building.
Sund recalls that in his years as player personnel chief in
Dallas, the Mavs thrived on the draft.
Among the projected top players in the draft, guards Mike Bibby,
Paul Pierce, Vince Carter and Larry Hughes, forwards Robert Traylor
and Antawn Jamison and center Nazr Mohammed are all underclassmen.
German Dirk Nowitzki and Houston high-schooler Rashard Lewis did
not go to college. And there are three others also making the jump
from high school.
Although Tim Duncan of San Antonio and Keith Van Horn of New
Jersey both stayed in college four years, few are induced to follow
their example.
Over the last six years, only a handful of players took the
teams that drafted them from the lottery to the playoffs. The
number includes Kevin Garnett and Stephon Marbury (Minnesota),
Grant Hill (Detroit), Shaquille O'Neal and Penny Hardaway (Orlando)
and Alonzo Mourning (Charlotte).
ATLANTA -- Please forgive today's hysterical amount of newsprint
devoted to a few baseball games in June, but we feel a little pulp
friction is appropriate here.
Big news, the approach of any Braves series that is more than
the usual corporate outing or a nice day for the Newnan Pony
League. You've got to understand that this team, by its consistent
drone atop the standings, can get a little stupefying during the
regular season. We've gone through all the usual adjectives in the
'90s, done just about all the gymnastics possible over the National
League East's Atlanta Foregone Conclusions. There's so little left
to give when they throw at you, as they have these last 10 days, a
steady low-fat diet of Expo and Marlin.
So, when they're off Monday for two games at The House George
Wants To Demolish, returning directly here for two more against the
New York Yankees, it's as good a reason as any to over-react. A
best-of-four might not be the perfect format for deciding the fate
of civilization, but that's how they do dress rehearsals for the
World Series these days.
Know why it's a big deal? It's something different, a boot to
the butt of complacency.
These are the kinds of games that justify the entire concept of
interleague play. All the arguments against it evaporate over the
heat of the next week.
Anything that gets Andruw Jones back to the Bronx, where the kid
homered in his first two World Series at-bats, is worthwhile.
Apparently, they're getting the same sort of tingle about June
baseball in cosmopolitan New York. The press boxes in both cities
reportedly will be filled, a hopeful sign that America still
regards a good baseball game almost as highly as a Nigeria-Paraguay
soccer game (that 1-1 tie is scheduled for Wednesday).
Even as you're reading this, I'm sure the New York Post is
preparing bold headlines for this Series:
A warning. We have been through this once before. Last season,
it was a visit by the Baltimore Ripkens that got everyone in a
froth. Neither team kept its Fall Classic appointment, there being
no bacon behind the sizzle.
True, it's not yet the All-Star break. Injuries have just
started to have their say note the recent pains to important
Yankees Bernie Williams and Derek Jeter. There's too much baseball
left to be played.
A few tickets remain for the two-game set in New York after
officials decided to release a few thousand tickets on Friday.
Yankee Stadium, with a capacity of 57,545, is expected to sell out
before gametime. Scalpers in New York are getting more than $300
for box seats close to the field. At Turner Field, which seats
50,062, the Braves will sell 186 skyline seats and probably 3,000
or so $5 standing-room-only tickets. The skyline seats, which cost
$1 each, go on sale about three hours before gametime, and then the
SRO tickets will go on sale. The series will give the Yankees a big
attendance lift. The club has averaged 32,982 a game, but
attendance has dropped below 28,000 during Monday and Tuesday
games. The Braves average 38,088 for the season, but that number
drops to 34,649 for games on Wednesday and Thursday.
Both press boxes will be overflowing. New York will use its two
auxiliary boxes to accommodate more than 250 media requests.
Atlanta's main box will fill up with double- and triple-staffing by
the New York papers. There have been more than 150 requests, well
above the normal weekly average of 30.
That was ESPN Magazine's headline recently for an article about
the significance and excitement surrounding the four games. The
magazine matched the teams for a seven-game series and predicted
the Yankees would win in seven.
ATLANTA -- When the four-game series between the Braves and
Yankees ends Thursday night, baseball fans will have a better idea
of how these teams match up. But the AJC didn't want to wait that
long, so we asked Diamond Mind Baseball, a computer baseball game,
to handle the simulation.
Diamond Mind fed into its computers a detailed set of ratings
for batting, pitching, fielding and other baseball skills. The
company simulated every pitch, even factoring in pitcher fatigue
based on the number of pitches thrown. The game includes a computer
manager who made all tactical decisions.
While both teams have injuries New York's Bernie Williams is
out, for example the AJC elected to play the computer games with
the teams at full strength. The pitching matchups for each game
were projected last Monday, but have changed. The lineups are based
on the players the teams typically use against right- and
left-handed pitchers. Players were rated by current and past
performances, with emphasis on how they are playing now.
And the results? The Yankees won three of four games. Atlanta's
bullpen failed to keep leads in two of the games. Each team scored
25 runs, although the Braves outhit the Yankees for average, .295
to .252. For the series, Scott Brosius led the Yankees offensively,
going 5-for-15 with two homers. Andres Galarraga hit three homers
and drove in eight runs for the Braves.
The Yankees scored two runs in the first and kept that lead
until the eighth, when Ryan Klesko homered off reliever Mike
Stanton, a former Brave. The Braves then took a two-run lead in the
12th on a homer by Andres Galarraga. But New York got to Mark
Wohlers in the bottom of the inning and tied the score on an
infield single by Derek Jeter. Dennis Martinez replaced Wohlers and
walked in the winning run.
The Yankees scored early, extending Tom Glavine's first-inning
problems, but he shut down New York through eight innings. Atlanta
built an 8-2 lead with Danny Bautista's two-run double and
Galarraga's two-run homer. Yankees starter Andy Pettitte gave up
six runs. But the Braves bullpen made it interesting again,
allowing the Yankees to score three runs in the bottom of the ninth
against Kerry Ligtenberg.
Scott Brosius gave the Yankees the lead with a two-run homer in
the third, then added a solo shot in the fifth. The Yankees scored
another in the sixth to lead 4-0 before Atlanta made it 4-3 in the
bottom of the sixth on a two-run double by Chipper Jones and
Galarraga's RBI single. New York scored two in the eighth to lead
6-3 before the Braves rallied in the ninth.
It started off as a pitchers' duel between Kevin Millwood and
David Wells, but with the scored tied at 1 in the sixth, the Braves
scored seven runs. Michael Tucker began the rally with a solo
homer. But the Yankees scored four off Millwood in the seventh, and
the Braves bullpen blew up again, with Ligtenberg and Alan Embree
combining to give up four runs. It was the second blown save of the
series for Atlanta.
If baseball ever needed an odd couple among its ownership, it
got it in Turner and Steinbrenner, two of the richest and most
powerful men in sports. Ted and George. George and Ted. Instead of
well-worn adjectives to describe the two, just recall that Turner
has gone to great financial lengths to save the world, and
Steinbrenner has gone to great lengths to control it.
George's main concern at the moment is whether he can force the
city of New York to tear down Yankee Stadium and build him a new
ballpark. Ted's main concern is about nuclear testing in India and
Pakistan.
That makes the upcoming series between the owners' baseball
teams more than a brief recreational respite from a mundane summer
schedule that has both teams threatening to lead their respective
divisions by double figures. In June.
But Turner and Atlanta have persevered. And Steinbrenner and New
York have persevered. In fact, that's why George and Ted are fond
of each other.
When the series begins in New York on Monday, the smartly
dressed Steinbrenner will be sitting in his club-level box, rocking
away in his leather recliner. And when the series shifts back to
Atlanta on Wednesday, Turner, in his best free-spirit attire, will
be watching from his seat near the field, jabbering away.
Turner will have his hands on a soft drink; Steinbrenner will
have his hands on the controls.
Turner, 60, paid $10 million for the Braves in 1976 and became
the proud owner of one of the worst franchises in sports.
Steinbrenner, 67, bought the Yankees in 1973 for $8.8 million and
had one of the best.
With good reason. Both men pushed baseball's envelope. Turner
once rolled a ball around the bases with his nose and rode an
ostrich in an on-field race. He was suspended by commissioner Bowie
Kuhn for taking over as manager for one Braves game.
Steinbrenner said he and Turner did not make a bet during the
1996 World Series, and he doesn't expect to do it this week.
Notes: Neagle broke a personal three-game losing streak in his
last outing Tuesday. Against a weak Florida lineup, he threw a
four-hit shutout and beat the Marlins 7-0. He struck out nine and
walked none. On June 5 of last season, Neagle shut out the Expos
9-0 in the Big O on a six-hitter. But he lost his next two starts
against the Expos, lasting six innings here in a 6-2 loss last July
6 before being pounded for four homers in 5 2/3 innings in a 7-1
loss Sept. 21 in Atlanta. Rondell White homered twice that day and
has three career homers against Neagle, batting .360 (9-for-25).
Shane Andrews (6-for-14, .429, one homer) also hits Neagle well.
Neagle had allowed 14 homers this year just four less than he
gave up all last season. Although he has a losing record, Hermanson
has statistically been Montreal's most effective starter.
Even the Yankees. New York has the best record in baseball, yet
has a bullpen ERA of 4.59, eighth among AL clubs and 20th in the
majors. The Braves, with the second-best mark in the majors, have
an ERA of 4.41. Houston, leading the NL Central, has struggled at
times, as have the Angels, now on top in the AL West. The average
bullpen ERA is 4.54 in the AL, 3.86 in the NL.
As a result, after the All-Star break, the top teams are likely
to scramble for relievers on clubs that are out of contention.
Don't laugh, but a pitcher like Arizona veteran Gregg Olson, who
has played on seven teams in the last five seasons trying to
rediscover his glory days with the Orioles, will be of high value.
Olson has 10 saves, two more than Atlanta's Mark Wohlers, and a
better ERA, 3.82, to 5.63 for Wohlers. The top name out there might
well be Toronto's Randy Myers. The Blue Jays are having another
disappointing season and could be willing to deal Myers, even
though the price probably would be high. But Myers has been the
majors' most consistent closer the last six years, averaging 38
saves a season. And while his ERA of 3.90 is high for a top
reliever, he has 18 saves this year.
Ugueth Urbina of Montreal is another possibility. Urbina is
costing the Expos only $550,000, but Montreal might be tempted if
it gets some starting pitching prospects, which the organization
lacks. Urbina has 17 saves and a 1.56 ERA on a team that is 29-42
and has an ERA of 4.46.
But the player who might be the easiest to obtain is
Philadelphia's Mark Leiter, who has done a good job filling in for
disabled Ricky Bottalico. Leiter has 13 saves, but Bottalico is
close to returning. The Phillies, who have built a nice young
nucleus, can afford to deal Leiter.
NEW ORLEANS Of the options Marion Jones had on the table when
she left the North Carolina campus with her communications degree
last spring, the one that seemed the riskiest was a track and field
career. She'd made a splash as a 16-year-old at the 1992 Olympic
Trials, finishing fourth in the 200 meters. But she'd broken a foot
twice trying to ready herself for the 1996 Atlanta Games never
making it to the trials.
And besides, a pro basketball career looked like money in the
bank. The two new leagues were hustling for talent. Here Jones was
an All-American at Carolina, whose point guard skills had led the
Tar Heels to a national title only a couple of years earlier.
Yet to the surprise of many, she ventured down the road of less
guarantees and now has put herself in position to be crowned the
queen of U.S. track and field. Jones only aided her calling
Saturday night, putting her winning stamp on both the 100 meters
and long jump at the USA Track and Field Championships.
Her 100-meter time of 10.72 was seventh-fastest ever, coming
after a championship-meet record 10.71 in the semifinals. About an
hour after her sprint victory, Jones went 23 feet, 8 inches on her
opening effort to win the long jump. And then, despite pulling up
with 30 meters left, followed it up with a 22.46 in the semis of
the 200 second-best in the world this year.
Today, she's a heavy favorite to seal her triple with a victory
in the 200 meters. With a sharp eye on Sydney in 2000, Jones is
talking a possible five gold medal performance (including two
relays) something never accomplished in the sport. Here she is
earning well into six-figures, more than the pro leagues could
offer. And this on top of her Nike shoe deal.
If there was any rust, Jones shed it quickly last summer en
route to winning the 100 meters at both the national and World
Championships. Track Field News was impressed enough to name her
Women's Athlete of the Year not just in America, but the world.
Forget about recent American sprinters Gail Devers and Gwen
Torrence, they couldn't touch the times Jones is putting down. She
owns the world's best performance this year in her three events 100, 200 and long jump and for the first time in a decade
Florence Griffith-Joyner's sprint records are in jeopardy. And yet
because of her awesome speed, Jones' best showing yet may come in
the long jump.
At the Prefontaine Classic last month, Jones took the long jump
with a 23-11 3/4 leap, 7 3/4 inches off the world record in only
her sixth major long jump competition. That's without much training
and with only basic technique.
Matt Kuchar's brush with immortality notwithstanding, the 98th
U.S. Open has been all Payne Stewart. If the storyline changes
today and Stewart fails to finish off a wire-to-wire performance the first in a U.S. Open since Tony Jacklin in 1970 he would be
surprised if it involves a self-destruction.
While others were struggling Saturday in fast, sun-baked
conditions that forced precision shots to find the fairway and some
luck to find the cup, Stewart remained solid with an even-par 70,
finishing at 3-under-par 207, four strokes ahead of Tom Lehman (68)
and former Marietta player Bob Tway (73), who are at 1-over 211.
Former Georgia Tech player Stewart Cink of Smyrna is tied for
eighth, remaining in contention at 4-over 214 after a 73.
Attempting to win his third major today, the champion of the
1991 U.S. Open and 1989 PGA figures he only has to maintain what
brought him to this point. Stewart, 41, started the week with a 66
and hasn't faded. He began Saturday's round with an eagle at the
first hole and hung on.
If Kuchar, who turns 20 today, were to manage it now, it would
require a miracle. Finally encountering difficulties Saturday, the
U.S. Amateur champion from Georgia Tech bogeyed four of the last
five holes for a 76 and stands nine shots back at 5-over 215.
It's a different role today for Lehman, who has slept on the
54-hole Open lead the last three years and failed to win. But a 68
returned his confidence level after a Friday 75.
BOSTON The Boston Globe, answering allegations that its star
columnist, Mike Barnicle, had fabricated material in his work,
announced on Saturday that it had checked 364 of Barnicle's columns
and confirmed the existence of the people who were portrayed and
quoted.
The announcement came on Saturday in the wake of accusations by
Professor Alan Dershowitz of the Harvard Law School that The Globe
could have been guilty of applying a double standard based on
gender and race when it asked for the resignation of Patricia
Smith.
Ms. Smith, the only black female columnist at a major Boston
newspaper, resigned on Thursday after she admitted fabricating
information in her columns.
Dershowitz, who is white, has accused Barnicle, who is also
white, of falsely attributing a racist, sexist quote to him in a
1990 column.
Editors and librarians at The Globe checked the sources in 364
of Barnicle's columns through computer data bases and discussions
with the writer, Matthew V. Storin, the editor of The Globe,
announced on Saturday.
The Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Co., has
occasionally checked the veracity of its Metro columnists' writings
since January of 1996, but undertook a full review of Barnicle's
work in light of Ms. Smith's admissions and Dershowitz's
allegations. The Globe is continuing to review the columns written
by Ms. Smith.
LOS ANGELES The lasting image of Michael Jordan's epic,
title-clinching shot in Game 6 of the NBA Finals may have to last a
long time.
The NBA and the players association have nine days to break a
three-month stalemate on a new labor pact or face another
owners-imposed lockout of the players the league's second labor
stoppage in four years.
Free agents will be frozen out. There will be no trades, no
player signings, no summer pro leagues, no NBA stars in the World
Championships.
Worse, the two sides are so entrenched that the NBA faces the
very real possibility of tarnishing its record as the only U.S.
professional sports league never to lose regular-season games to a
labor stoppage.
That's about as much as the two sides agree on, and that's bad
news for the league and for fans. Come July 1 the day free agents
are eligible to negotiate new contracts the owners will almost
certainly impose a lockout, leaving teams and players in limbo.
The owners voted earlier this year to reopen the collective
bargaining agreement signed in 1995. Granik and Billy Hunter,
executive director of the players association, have met 10 times
since April 1, and are no closer to reaching agreement on the
fundamental issue the clause that allows teams to ignore the
salary cap when re-signing their free agents.
Granik and Hunter will meet again Monday in what could be a
make-or-break negotiating session.
When the players and owners signed the current pact and salary
structure in 1995, they agreed players would receive at least 48
percent of NBA revenues. This season the players' salaries totaled
57 percent, far exceeding the 51.8 percent trigger that allowed the
owners to reopen the agreement.
The league claims 14 to 15 teams will finish in the red this
year. The union claims the number is closer to four or five, and
the players association also notes that major-league baseball and
the NFL pay players 60 to 70 percent of revenues.
The girl who shot him was angry, he says, because he wouldn't
lend her a 2Pac Shakur CD.
Doctors said he may never use his right arm again a
devastating diagnosis for an all-star baseball player who dreamed
of playing professionally. Amazingly, he's be gun to throw again.
But the shot from that .44 Magnum changed the lives of Lynn and
nearly everyone around him, showing just how devastating one bullet
can be. Here are their stories: Lynn Andrews
Late in the afternoon of Aug. 6, he and his best friend, Eddie
Gardner, were at the trailer where a 14-year-old girl lived with
her mother. They were listening to CDs and tidying up the trailer.
Lynn says she shot him on purpose, angry that he would not let
her keep the CD at her house for a while longer. She told police it
was an accident.
Lynn stumbled back into the living room and lay on the floor,
blood pouring from his chest. The CD supposedly in dispute kept
playing Shakur's All Eyez on Me.
Gunfire is part of the nightly serenade in Lynn's neighborhood,
just south of Seventh and Dobbins avenues and not far from the
Phoenix Police Academy shooting range. Still, Lynn never thought he
would get hit.
 Before he was shot, Lynn was cocky, he admits, not wanting to
listen to what his parents told him. Now, when they ask where he is
going and when he will be back, he answers them with a smile.
If he is outside at the park or walking home from school and
hears gunfire, he takes off running.
The night before Lynn was shot, he played in an all-star
baseball game. He was hospitalized for three days. Now, almost a
year later, Lynn can move his arm and even throw a ball.
Still, he can't open his hand. His fingers remain clenched. He's
em barrassed by it, tucking his hand behind his hip. But he can put
a ball in his hand and release it a throw he's working on. Lynn
started back to school as a freshman at South Mountain High in
February, writing with his left hand. Only a few friends know he
was shot. Few of his teachers know.
So, for now, he helps his father coach his little brother's
baseball team and watches Arizona State University and the Arizona
Dia mondbacks on television.
He works his arm constantly squeezing balls, lifting weights,
stretching. Lynn wants to play for ASU and then for the Diamond
backs, though he's never been to a game.
In an instant, the bullet shattered her assumption that her
children would be with her always, she would watch them graduate
from high school, then college, see them go to work, grow into
adulthood.
She holds her breath each time. Before the shooting, she thought
the worse thing that could happen to one of her children would be a
car accident. She never imagined the bullet hole in her son's
chest.
Darlene, 36, is the mother all the neighborhood kids go to,
either with their problems at home or for something to eat after
school.
The family has health insurance, so Lynn's medical bills are
paid. It's not about that, she says. She simply can't believe that
one child can shoot another with no punishment.
The clusters of houses were surrounded by fields. Kids dug
trenches and played tag. They climbed trees and ate the fruit for
lunch.
The shooting has taught Mark that no matter what he does as a
father setting curfews, teaching manners and what's right and
wrong, instilling a belief in God there's little he can do to
protect his kids once they leave his house.
But this man watching Lynn hit grounders to the younger
players is not angry. He takes a drag on a cigarette.
The Andrews family is close. Mark and his wife, married for 16
years, hug and kiss their children and tell them that they are
loved. It is hard for this man who survived heart surgery just a
few months ago to understand the disregard for life that led to the
shooting.
Lynn's best friend, Eddie Gardner, 17, a sophomore at South
Mountain High, is uncomfortable talking about the day his buddy was
shot. He still sees it in his mind, especially when he is trying to
sleep.
Gardner froze when the gun was fired that day. He saw Lynn
stumble into the living room and to the floor, blood pouring from
his chest and back. He ran to the home of a neighbor for help.
Meanwhile, the girl called 911.
Gardner ran to Lynn's trailer to get his mother. By the time he
got back, paramedics and police had arrived. Gardner was out of
breath.
Gardner was so shaken by seeing his best friend shot that he saw
a counselor, Darlene says. The boy has lived in this neighborhood
for a long time and seen a lot of violence, heard a lot of
gunshots, but this, Darlene says, was too close.
The boys live in the same trailer park, go to the same school
and played on the same baseball team. They are always together.
Gardner seems afraid to let Lynn out of his sight, Darlene says.
Amber, 13, was outside when Gardner ran up, yelling for her to
get her mother. She ran to the other trailer, but a neighbor kept
her from going inside. Through the doorway, she could see Lynn
lying on the floor and all of the blood.
Lynn keeps an eye on Amber, a seventh grader, she says, making
sure she stays out of trouble. He shoos away any boys who show an
interest in her. And as annoying as her big brother can be, Amber
says she can't imagine life without him.
The shooting of her brother has made her afraid. Her parents
don't let her go to the mall with friends or to the nearby park as
often.
Like his big brother, Mark An drews Jr., 12, plays catcher. He
is a seventh grader, a smart kid who skipped third grade. He built
a fort in the desert near the trailer park but is not allowed to go
there by himself anymore.
 Mark Jr. was outside playing his keyboard when Lynn was shot.
He dropped the instrument and ran for the other trailer.
There was nothing for a 12-year-old boy to do but wait. He
waited while paramedics loaded Lynn into the ambulance and then
waited at the hospital. Then, he waited three days for his brother
to come home.
The case was turned down for prosecution by a grand jury, says
Phoenix Police Detective Bob Hutchins, a 28-year veteran who
investigated the shooting.
No one will ever know for sure if the shooting was an accident,
he says, adding that he doesn't think the girl shot Lynn
intentionally.
Problem was, the neighborhood kids even Lynn said at first
that it had to be an accident. After all, they were friends.
And by the time the grand jury made its decision, the 60-day
dead line to submit charges in juvenile court had passed.
This has stuck in Hutchins' craw. Lynn wasn't some gang member
or even a kid asking for trouble.
Gaye Cochran, a deputy county attorney, pressed for a charge of
aggravated assault and wanted the girl treated as an adult.
The girl knew where the gun was kept. She had shown it off
earlier in the day. She was apparently upset about not getting the
CD.
The girl and her family have since moved out of the trailer
park. Their telephone number is not listed.
She registered for classes at South Mountain High on the same
day Lynn returned, and though Lynn has never spoken to her since
the shooting, his friends and neigh borhood kids have.
The police never found the bullet, though neighborhood kids say
the girl's mother dug it out of the wall of the trailer.
Gwaltney kicked a 33-yard field goal with no time remaining to
lift Georgia to a 23-21 win over Florida at the Georgia Dome. His
48-yard punt with five minutes to play helped swing the field
position bad for Georgia most of the game into his team's
favor.
Buford High's Tim Wansley earned Most Valuable Player honors for
Georgia. The 5-foot-9, 175-pound Georgia signee played both
cornerback and wide receiver and finished as the game's leading
rusher with his only carry, a 69-yard touchdown run on a reverse.
Wansley also had the biggest catch of the game, an 18-yard
reception on third-and-6 at the Florida 45 that set up the
game-winning field goal.
Defensive end Marcus Johnson intercepted a pass and blocked an
extra point to earn MVP honors for Florida. Georgia Tech signee Joe
Burns carried the ball 17 times for 42 yards and scored on a 3-yard
run. Demetrick Moore, a Georgia Military signee from Ware County,
added 38 yards on 11 carries. Washington County graduate Terrence
Edwards was the game's leading receiver with 79 yards, including a
70-yard TD catch. Georgia trailed 21-20 with 2:56 to play when it
took over at the Florida 49. Two runs netted just four yards. On
third down, Regan Torbert was under heavy pressure and unloaded a
short pass to Wansley, who cut off his deep route and turned it
into an 18-yard gain.
Two Moore runs resulted in another first down at the Florida 13
and gave Georgia coach Rodney Walker a chance to play for the
winning field goal. Two runs at right tackle left Gwaltney with a
33-yard attempt from the right hash mark.
WASHINGTON Johnny Chung, a former fund-raiser for the
Democrats turned federal witness, has named several Democratic
Party officials whose aggressive encouragement, his lawyer says,
may have caused him to step over the line.
Chung has given detailed briefings about his conversations with
party officials to federal investigators, his lawyer, Brian A. Sun,
confirmed in an interview. Sun did not say who the officials were.
Chung had previously given federal investigators what
Republicans said was the first hard evidence that China had planned
to influence the 1996 presidential election.
As top Democrats accused Chung of betraying their trust, by
apparently acting as a conduit for illegal foreign money into the
party's coffers, Sun offered a stiff retort.
Senior Democratic National Committee officials had suspicions
about Chung as early as March 1995, but that never stopped
Democrats and White House officials from soliciting money from him
in the run-up to the 1996 elections, according to depositions and
Senate investigators.
The worst fears of top Democrats materialized last month when it
was revealed that Chung had told federal investigators he funneled
nearly $100,000 from a Chinese military officer to the Democrats in
1996. Chung gave the Democrats a total of $366,000, which was
returned after questions about the money.
In March, Chung, a southern California businessman, pleaded
guilty to charges of campaign-related bank and tax fraud, and he is
to be sentenced on July 20. He is cooperating with the Justice
Department's campaign-finance inquiry.
From the back of his taxicab one morning in 1996, the Democratic
National Committee chairman, Donald L. Fowler, saw Chung standing
on the doorstep of the committee headquarters near Capitol Hill.
Government statistics say domes tic violence is underreported by
10 to 1. Having experienced more than 40 physical assaults, with
only four resulting in arrest and conviction of the batterer, I
guess I fit the statistic.
But I am not a statistic. I am a woman, with a name, a life, a
family. Please remember that be yond statistics are real people somebody's mother, daughter, sister and friend.
In domestic violence, abuses oc cur mainly in private. Good
people do not seem to be able to compre hend that a man is abusing
his wife and family.
But that also seems to be the case even when the abuses are
witnessed. While I was separated from my husband, he learned I had
gone to church without him. He demanded to know who I sat next to,
who were the men there.
I didn't answer, and he began pulling me into the car, twisting
my hair around his fists, pulling and pushing me back and forth
over the 18-month-old sitting on the seat next to him who, of
course, began to scream.
My head was slammed into the door frame, my leg bruised by my
trying to use it to brace myself. In the blur of it all, I managed
to get the baby out of the car and into the house before the abuser
sped off.
People pass off domestic violence as the responsibility of the
system. But the justice system did not stop the assaults against
me. This time a third assault conviction the abuser was allowed
to avoid the court order to attend treatment. I came to realize
there exists what I've come to call the chain of discretion.
At any point in this chain the police officer, then the
prosecutor, then the judge an abuser is likely to talk his way
out of it.
Of all the women I've known whose abusers were arrested and
prosecuted, I have never known a judge to impose a maximum sen
tence.
Imagine trying to regain nor malcy while living in an unfamiliar
place in close quarters with people you don't know. The intimacies
of life's private tragedies are lived out in full view of one
another; children disoriented, the hourly tensions, the crying.
This second shelter experience in 1995 offered the guarantee of
at least the basic necessities of life for 30 days that came and
went too soon.
But there was no rest there. My now-2-year-old had developed kid
ney disease. Her fever was high and she was swollen head to toe. I
had to take her to the hospital immedi ately, after midnight and
with a groggy 8-year-old old in tow. My old vehicle by now had two
gears left, no air-conditioning, and over heated every seven miles
like clock work.
It finally gave out on one of these runs to the clinic a day
I'll never forget.
It was July, the height of the summer heat, with a feverish baby
and a confused 8-year-old. And when it broke down that day, I
suppose I did, too tears rolling down my face, unable to move,
car horns blaring at me, drivers cursing at me, my children looking
scared I gave up in the middle of Alma School Road.
With one I called the clinic to say the baby would be late.
Another I gave to my 8-year-old, hoping it would make her feel
better. The other I used to call my ex.
I spent hours on the phone or in transit to appointments,
filling out form after form, existing in waiting rooms with hungry,
restless chil dren.
When my time was up at the shelter after 30 days, I had nowhere
to go, no provisions, no working vehicle, no housing and $270 a
month on which to survive with two children.
Society seemed to disregard that I didn't get to be a battered
woman by choice.
I felt awkward, undeserving and self-conscious among the
married, the housed, the fed, the insured, the secure.
A friend offered to let me and the children stay with her for a
week. When the week was up, she gave me enough money for a U-haul
truck to put my few belongings in storage.
Even the U-haul was used as a sleeping place for myself and the
children for a couple of days.
I went from friend to friend, each for a different night or
couple of days. Even my mother-in-law re sponded to the need for my
children and I to have food and rest. I spent those days feeling
weak and slept most of the time.
I'd exhausted all other options. All I could think of was
waiting for the housing subsidy I'd applied for to come through,
and prayed it wouldn't be long.
Only four days back with him, I was hit in the face while trying
to leave. There was no phone in the house; he watched my every
move, monitored my pager and forbade me to associate with neighbors
unless he was there.
Our 2-year-old's condition was by then manageable and she was
recov ering. I was now pregnant again. Thoughts of having a place
of my own kept me as sane as I could manage given the abuser's
daily barrage of insults, demands and abuse.
I spent nights sleeping with the children in the back of my
vehicle, at times for nights in a row parked in a grocery store
lot.
The vehicle kept breaking down; my 8-year-old was unable to get
to school, sometimes for a whole week. I could see the hardship
weighing heavily on my children. Their beautiful little eyes so
deserv ing to be full of life held only sad confusion.
Hours of endless phone calls made from the corner pay phone, the
sound of cars and trucks drowning out whatever helpful mes sage I
might be lucky enough to connect with. I had to be on guard that
the children didn't run into the street while my attention was on a
pen and paper.
I spent those days on bus benches, building my life around the
goal of getting my daughter to school for her free lunch.
Some days I stretched the bus fare by walking a few miles,
saving enough to buy a jar of apple sauce, a little something for
the unborn child.
Would I have energy left to walk the children to the food bank
or the soup kitchen later? Have change for the bus back, maybe?
Even now, as I write, there is a surreal quality to it all, as
if the only way I could cope was to allow myself to feel like it
happened to someone else.
Today, two years after the loss of my son to stillbirth, I have
survived to carry his spirit with me. I know I will never be the
same. I am a realist now.
My senses are heightened of danger, of deception, of survival.
And also heightened is my sense of self, my sense of being a child
of God, and the true sanctity of life as God intended.
I know that with continued safety provided to victims, freeing
them to speak out in ways that enlighten others, the experiences of
battered women can and will be different.
With increased awareness, the old myths will fall away, allowing
us all a chance to better the quality of life for abuse survivors
and their fami lies, for those who care about them, and for
ourselves as a community and as a people children of God all of
us.
 By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO It was the putter that betrayed Jeff Maggert on
Saturday during the third round of the U.S. Open.
Three three-putts for bogeys on the treacherous Olympic Club
Lake Course tract was the difference between a very acceptable
2-over-par round of 72 and Maggert's disappointing 75. It also was
the difference between trailing leader Payne Stewart by three shots
or the six that Maggert will face going in today's final round.
And still expect to win the U.S. Open Golf Championship. That
was what was most discouraging of all. Maggert has finished fourth
in the Open in two of the last four years, and his back-to-back 69s
in the first two rounds of this tournament had put him in a great
position to finally get his first major victory.
Maggert's day ended up even more frustrating because he started
out so well. He opened with a birdie that helped him stay close to
playing partner Stewart, who made eagle on No. 1. Even the bogey 4
on No. 3 and the double-bogey 6 on No. 5 weren't too devastating
because Stewart had stumbled as well and there was plenty of golf
to be played.
Maggert did manage to sink a nice 12-footer for birdie on No. 16
that got him back to 2 over for the tournament But the 17th hole
dealt him what might have been the fatal blow. Maggert hit what he
thought was a solid approach shot to the green, only to have the
ball catch the edge of the heavy greenside rough. He recovered with
a nice chip to within five feet but missed the par putt.
That has been the case too often for Maggert, who has 11
second-place finishes on tour. He has a solid record in major
championships in 22 major appearances since 1992, he has finished
in the top 10 eight times. But he still is seeking that big
victory.
Maggert came close last year. He spent a good portion of the
final round locked in a battle for the title with eventual champion
Ernie Els, Tom Lehman and Colin Montgomerie. But a couple of bogeys
midway through the day forced him to play aggressively. And he
closed with back-to-back double bogeys and finished fourth.
Unfortunately for Maggert, that is so true. And it's unlikely
Maggert will be able to change that today. But he still intends to
try.
But Maggert needs even more than that. The Olympic Club is one
of the most difficult courses the pros have faced in recent years.
Even Maggert was surprised at what the course threw at the golfers
Saturday.
Van Poppel, whom the Rangers purchased from Triple-A Oklahoma
before yesterday's game at Edison International Field of Anaheim,
could not record an out during the third inning before being
removed by Oates in the Angels' 8-3 victory.
Perisho, whom the Rangers recalled Tuesday from Triple-A
Oklahoma, registered only seven outs during his start Tuesday in a
9-7 loss to the Oakland Athletics at The Ballpark in Arlington.
Van Poppel delivered few strikes during his 75-pitch appearance,
but the first one he threw actually, his first pitch to Angels
leadoff hitter Darin Erstad glanced off the right-field foul pole
after leaving the first baseman's bat.
Van Poppel, who surrendered five runs on four hits, issued five
walks. Consecutive third-inning walks to catcher Phil Nevin and
left fielder Orlando Palmeiro brought Oates from his perch in the
dugout.
The Rangers supported Van Poppel with three runs before the
right-hander took the mound for his first major-league appearance
since Sept. 27, 1996. Left fielder Rusty Greer delivered a one-out,
run-scoring single, and a two-run home run from right fielder Juan
Gonzalez two pitches later gave the Rangers a 3-0 lead.
Van Poppel, though, hit third baseman Dave Hollins with a 3-2
pitch after Erstad's home run. Center fielder Jim Edmonds, the next
hitter, lined a single through the middle on a 3-1 pitch. Hollins
eventually scored on a ground ball by designated hitter Tim Salmon,
and Van Poppel then issued a four-pitch walk to right fielder
Garret Anderson. A two-out, run-scoring single by Palmeiro also
occurred on a three-ball count.
Angels right-hander Steve Sparks, whom the Angels purchased
Monday from Triple-A Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League, beat
the Rangers for the second time in six days after going 0-8 during
11 minor-league starts this season.
Sparks, who relies on his knuckleball, allowed only three hits
and three walks during the next 5 1/3 innings after a shaky first
frame.
It remains to be seen whether Van Poppel will receive an
opportunity to start Thursday's game at Arizona.
WASHINGTON Lawyers for Monica Lewinsky have been told that she
must agree to plead guilty to some offense to reach an agreement
with Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel who is investigating
her relationship with President Clinton, said a person with
knowledge of the investigation.
Ms. Lewinsky's new legal team is pressing Starr to grant her
full immunity from prosecution in exchange for her testimony, in
which the former White House intern would acknowledge a sexual
relationship with the president, said the person, who insisted on
anonymity.
But in early talks with her lawyers, the person said, Starr has
insisted that he would end the criminal investigation of Ms.
Lewinsky only if she would agree to a guilty plea. It was unclear
if she would be required to plead guilty to a misdemeanor or
felony, and what sort of punishment might be imposed on her as a
result.
Details about the negotiations between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's
new legal team, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein, were first reported
on Saturday in The Washington Post.
It was not immediately clear whether Cacheris and Stein,
prominent Washington lawyers who were hired by Ms. Lewinsky's
family early this month, had been able to obtain a deal for their
client that was any better than the one that had been offered by
Starr to her previous lawyer, William Ginsburg.
Any statement by Ms. Lewinsky that she had sex with the
president would be a problem for Clinton, who has said in a sworn
deposition that he had never had a sexual relationship with the
former intern.
U.S. News and World Report said on Saturday that one of its
editors had been allowed to listen to two hours of previously
undisclosed recordings of Ms. Lewinsky and that she was infatuated
with Clinton, although the tapes are ambiguous about whether there
was a physical relationship between the president and the former
White House intern.
The magazine said that an associate editor, Elise Ackerman, was
allowed to listen to the tapes, which were made last October, under
an agreement in which she was not allowed to make a copy, nor take
notes while she was listening.
According to the report, the tapes were among those made by
Linda Tripp, the former Pentagon employee who turned her tapes of
Ms. Lewinsky over to Starr, who is trying to determine if Clinton
or others sought to coerce Ms. Lewinsky into lying.
SAN FRANCISCO On one side of the equation is Payne Stewart,
the wire-to-wire leader at the U.S. Open whose four-stroke
advantage represents the largest third-round margin at the event
since 1970.
Problem is, Stewart is also playing at the Olympic Club, where
no third-round leader has gone on to win the Open in three previous
visits to the course.
Stewart, an SMU graduate who fashioned a third-round 70 to
remain the only player under par through three rounds (3 under),
said yesterday that he likes his chances to close out his
competitors for the championship.
Stewart showed few signs of backing up during the third round
yesterday, opening with an eagle and building his lead to four
strokes by the time he reached the sixth tee box. Stewart, who led
by a single stroke after each of the first two rounds, did not let
the cushion dip below four stokes the rest of the way.
He will carry that four-shot advantage into the final pairing
with Tom Lehman, who sat on the 54-hole lead at the past three
Opens but did not win any. Also trailing Stewart by four strokes is
Bob Tway (1 over), with Nick Price and Lee Janzen, both at 2 over,
the only other players within five strokes of the lead.
Members of that five-player group have combined to win eight
major championships, with each owning at least one major title and
only Price (three) having more than two. Suffice to say, it is a
far more elite list of pursuers that awaits Stewart today than the
cast of characters who dropped off the pace yesterday, when PGA
Tour journeymen Jeff Maggert (75) and Lee Porter (75) joined U.S.
Amateur champ Matt Kuchar (76) as fallen contenders.
Yet Stewart, winner of the 1991 Open and the 1989 PGA
Championship, insists that he is undaunted by the history of
Olympic, which has seen golfing giants Ben Hogan (1955), Arnold
Palmer (1966) and Tom Watson (1987) reeled in by less-heralded
players in come-from-behind fashion in the final round.
Stewart took control of his destiny by reaching the green at the
par-5 first hole in two shots, then dropping a 15-foot eagle putt.
In three rounds, Stewart is 4 under at No. 1 and 1 over for the
rest of the course.
The bottom line, all agree, will depend on whether Stewart opens
the door for those in his rearview mirror. Through three rounds, he
has three-putted one green. His nine bogeys are the fewest of any
player on the leader board.
He has the chance, on Father's Day, to finish a quest that
started with his late father, Bill, in the 1955 Open at Olympic.
Bill Stewart, a club pro from Springfield, Mo., missed the cut in
that event by shooting 83-88. His son, Payne, has a chance to win
on the same course 43 years later.
Stewart reflected yesterday on what advice his father would have
given him heading into the final round.
At the Antiquorum auction of important timepieces in midtown
Manhattan, the answer was a record-breaking $1.1 million, for a
yellow gold Patek Philippe wristwatch with perpetual calendar and
moon phases. Only three of its kind were made. It was believed to
be the highest price ever paid for a watch in the United States.
The previous record was $786,000, for a Patek Philippe sold by
Christie's in 1996.
The watch sold on Saturday, to an unnamed American collector,
was among a dazzling inventory that included a Patek Philippe
wristwatch that had belonged to the jazz great Duke Ellington.
Ellington bought his waterproof watch, yellow gold with a round
button split-second chronograph, in Geneva on July 28, 1948. An
unnamed German collector bought it on Saturday for $673,500. Its
value, prior to the auction, had been estimated at $150,000 to
$180,000.
The auction was the second held this year in New York City by
Antiquorum, an auction house based in Geneva that sells fine
timepieces around the world, and it comes at a time when luxury
watch sales are booming. Manhattan dealers report brisk sales of
new watches in the $25,000 to $75,000 range.
But unlike the young tycoons snapping up Rolexes, Breguets, and
newer Patek Philippes, the buyers on Saturday were keen-eyed
collectors, aficionados of horology, the 500-year-old artful
science of building devices that measure time.
Primarily, they are motivated by two things: quality and rarity,
said Osvaldo Patrizzi, the chairman of Antiquorum.
There were many famous brand names on the auction block,
including Rolex and Movado, but those made by Patek Philippe,
founded in Switzerland in 1839 and known for its sophisticated
workmanship, attracted the most attention.
The same German collector who bought the Ellington watch also
bought a Patek Philippe World Time wristwatch, in pink gold with
fancy hands and a revolving ring dial bearing the names of 41
cities, for $662,500. Total sales at the auction were $5.55
million.
Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnist items that moved on
Saturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of NATIONAL stories and general ADVISORIES that
moved on Saturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved on Saturday,
June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of INTERNATIONAL stories that moved on
Saturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved on Saturday,
June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved on
Saturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved on Saturday, June
20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
Here is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved on Saturday,
June 20, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
SAN FRANCISCO You've been there before, they tell him. And
that's supposed to make Tom Lehman feel better.
Like being tied to the tracks in front of a moving locomotive is
always much easier the second time around. Or standing before a
firing squad. Or having root canal without Novocain.
This will be the fourth consecutive year that Lehman has teed
off in the final pairing of the U.S. Open, which is the golf
equivalent of going over Niagara Falls in a barrel. All you're
trying to do is make it in one piece.
You know the sad history, you know that the last three trips
have wound up with him busted on the rocks and you figure that the
night before they strap him to the rack and start the torture all
over again, Lehman would either be climbing walls or one of the
many cypress trees that help make the Lake Course at the Olympic
Club a tight, tilted, twisted mind-trip.
If it had to be a Disney flick, you might think something
starring Goofy would have been more appropriate, since that's what
blowing three consecutive chances to win the Open could make
anyone.
But Lehman doesn't look like a guy who has stayed up nights
muttering to himself in the dark, replaying the videotapes and
re-living the misery. And there is plenty of that.
In 1995, he entered the final round at Shinnecock Hills tied for
the lead with Greg Norman but faded to finish third as Corey Pavin
won the title.
In 1996, Lehman held the 54-hole lead and played the last round
as a head-to-head duel with his buddy-on-tour Steve Jones. The two
devout Christians exchanged inspirational words throughout the
round, but it was Jones who was lifted to the win at Oakland Hills.
Last year, the site was the Congressional Country Club and the
story was the same on the last day. Lehman led the field going in
but splashed his second shot on No. 17, taking himself out of
contention as Ernie Els claimed the championship.
Now he's back, like Bill Murray in Groundhog Day and Sonny and
Cher are singing I Got You Babe in the background. But this time
there's a twist.
While Lehman will be playing in the final twosome, this time he
and Bob Tway are leading the hunt behind Payne Stewart's four-shot
lead.
When you're the leader, all eyes are on you. When you're the
leader at the U.S. Open and everybody is saying that all you have
to do to win the thing is hit the fairways and play solid golf,
those fairways start to look about as wide as a ruler and the only
thing solid is the weight on your back.
But for a warm, pleasant, surprising Saturday afternoon in the
Bay Area, when the only problem was a devilish breeze that made the
sloping fairways even harder to hold, Lehman pulled himself back
together after a second-round 75 with a 2-under-par 68 that was the
best score of the day. He used good middle irons to set himself up
for three birdies on the first three holes and then bogeyed the
next three. He chipped in from 15 feet on No. 14 for a birdie and
then hit a wedge to within six feet and birdied No. 18.
Though with a slightly different perspective as the chaser, this
brings him to this familiar position on the last day, trying to
shake off a reputation as a guy who can't handle the big-time
pressure. Which is certainly an odd tag for a player with four PGA
Tour victories and who won the British Open in 1996.
So the question is whether it's fun or torture being in
contention on the last day of the U.S. Open.
SAN FRANCISCO For all the reasons Payne Stewart is not only
leading the 98th US Open but also is the only golfer under par,
this may be the most telling: There have been 294 double bogeys
through three rounds, but none by Stewart.
Swirling winds and bright sun that firmed the fairways so that
the slightest miss caused shots to roll off them and into the
ever-deepening rough have humbled all who have teed it up at The
Olympic Club; all, that is, except Stewart.
So Stewart is the improbable leader, firing a par 70 Saturday
that kept him in the same position at day's end as at day's
beginning 3 under par. Virtually all other golfers lost ground to
Stewart as he has a four-stroke lead over Tom Lehman (68 211) and
Bob Tway (73). His four-shot lead is the largest entering the final
round of the Open since Tony Jacklin also led by four in 1970.
Improbable leader? Well, Stewart may have won the Open in 1991
at Hazeltine outside Minneapolis, but he has won only one other
tourney in the US in the eight years since (the 1995 Shell Houston
Open, beating Scott Hoch in a playoff). Stewart may have won
$8,465,062 in his career and may be the seventh-leading all-time
money winner, but tour wins have been scant, and few since he beat
Scott Simpson in a playoff to take his second major. He won the
1989 PGA Championship.
One of the few golfers to make up ground on Stewart was Tom
Lehman, one of only three golfers to break par Saturday. Lehman, of
course, has been extremely close to winning the last three Opens third in 1995, second in 1996, and tied for the lead at
Congressional last year when his shot found the water on the 17th
hole on the final day and he finished third.
Among the many golfers who took a free fall Saturday, one of the
most painful was by amateur Matt Kuchar, who will turn 20 Sunday.
Kuchar was alone in second place, 1 over par, when he teed off on
the 14th hole, but he proceeded to three-putt the hole, the first
of four straight bogeys, which dropped him off the leaderboard.
Meanwhile, Brad Faxon of Barrington, R.I., to whom the Open
never has been kind, was in ideal position Saturday to make his
first mark on an Open leaderboard as he started the day at 1 over,
four shots behind Stewart. Faxon needed only to play a consistent
round of near-par golf to be in the thick of the battle.
Deer either smacked a pitch far over the outfield wall or struck
out mightily, the buttons on his shirt nearly bursting on every
swing.
Makes you wonder how the 6-foot-4, 245-pound Deer will fare in
his post-baseball career, which at the moment, is drag racing.
Deer either will blow the doors off a rival or get his 1955
Chevy BelAir off the starting line too early and red light, causing
an immediate disqualification.
When Deer retired, he renewed that love and purchased a 1967
Chevy Camaro, which he raced in the National Hot Rod Association's
super street sportsman category.
Later, he talked his parents into moving from California to
Mesa, where Deer has lived for several years, and persuaded his dad
to resume his own drag racing career.
Bob Deer now is driving the Camaro and Rob recently purchased a
1955 Chevy BelAir and competes in super gas.
Bob Deer, who still works full time at Falcon Field, will travel
with his son next month to Sonoma, Calif., and compete in a
national event at Sears Point Raceway. Primarily, however, the
elder Deer's plans are to compete only locally at Speedworld,
Firebird International Raceway Park or Southwestern International
Raceway in Tucson.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. Life was anything but a beach Saturday
night for the fun-in-the-sun Red Sox, who finally fell off the wave
they've been riding, 8-5, to the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays,
who treated Bret Saberhagen's changeup like they were hitting off a
tee.
The Red Sox lost not only the game, ending a four-game winning
streak before a crowd of 41,169 in Tropicana Field, but also the
argument, as manager Jimy Williams was ejected despite having what
appeared to be a legitimate (sounds like beach).
Williams was tossed for the second time in 17 days, giving him
one more ejection than he had all of last season, after plate
umpire Rich Garcia reversed his call in the fifth inning and ruled
that Quinton McCracken had been hit by a Saberhagen pitch with two
Devil Rays already on base.
All three baserunners scored after Dave Martinez scorched a
two-run double off Saberhagen, who has lost his last two starts
after winning three in a row, and Wade Boggs followed with a
sacrifice fly off rookie Brian Barkley.
Garcia changed his mind after consulting third-base umpire John
Hirschbeck at the request of Greg Riddoch, the Devil Rays'
third-base coach, who told Garcia that he heard the pitch hit
McCracken.
Out of the Red Sox dugout popped Williams, who sandwiched
himself between Garcia and Hirschbeck while posing, in language
that became increasingly pungent the longer the argument went on,
this question: How could Hirschbeck, standing 120 feet away, be in
a better position than plate umpire Garcia to hear a ball striking
a batsman?
Down, 6-1, to the Devil Rays, the Red Sox drew to within a run
on Vaughn's 21st home run and Lou Merloni's RBI single in the
sixth, and two hits and a two-run error committed by Tampa Bay
second baseman Miguel Cairo on Vaughn's hard shot in the seventh.
But the Devil Rays, losers of their first four meetings against
the Red Sox, rallied for two runs in the bottom of the inning
against Barkley and Jim Corsi, who gave up a two-run ground single
to catcher John Flaherty, fresh off the disabled list.
The loss, which dropped Saberhagen's record to 8-5, was only the
third in the Sox' last dozen games. Saberhagen bolted from the
clubhouse afterward, not wishing to discuss damage wreaked by
Cairo's triple and Kevin Stocker's sacrifice fly in the second,
Paul Sorrento's two-run homer in the fourth, and Martinez's two-run
dagger in the fifth.
Better yet, he should be sent home immediately. He should then
be dispatched to Cambridge, where he can take a look at a different
type of athlete. He might come away better equipped to deal with
his own life issues.
This is not to imply that the Special Olympics are any kind of
somber experience. Au contraire. The Massachusetts Special
Olympics, which are being held this weekend at MIT, happens to be
one of the great uplifting experiences anyone can have. I mean, if
it's smiling faces you want to see, the Special Olympics is the
place to see them.
It's a variation of the famed Grantland Rice idea that the
important thing is how you played the game. In this case, the
important thing is that you played the game. For many of the
athletes, participation truly is enough to make them happy.
You can meet some extraordinary people. Take Michael McAdams,
for example. He has been participating in Special Olympic
competitions since 1987. He was there to run in both the 100 meters
and 400 meters Saturday, but during his time he has earned medals
in basketball, soccer, volleyball, the long jump, and shot put.
When most of us think of the Special Olympics, we tend to
conjure up a picture of people running, jumping, or throwing an
object. Track and field is the glamour sport of the event, no
doubt. But there is a lot more going on right now than track and
field.
I got to see most of a doubles match. Dan Widrich and Rich
Miller prevailed over David Broden and Meg Schilling in a match
that included some nice rallies and some particularly agile
retrieves by Miller, a Special Olympics veteran who admitted to
being a somewhat reluctant participant since he considers himself
more of a coach than an athlete these days.
The tennis players are particularly excited because four of them
will be nominated to participate in the 1999 World Games, which
will be held next summer in North Carolina. But most of the
participants don't need that carrot in order to enjoy themselves
here.
With that, the skies opened up a bit and it seemed to make sense
to get in out of the rain. That took me inside the hockey rink, and
into the roller skating competition.
And speaking of smiles, Peter Richards had a grin as wide as a
football field every time he passed in front of his family when he
skated around the floor. He was pretty psyched when he got his
silver medal, too.
Vicki Movsessian was on hand to give out medals, and if the name
sounds familiar, it's because she was a member of the gold
medal-winning women's hockey team in Nagano.
I know this much: There is no way you can put a price tag on one
of those smiles.
SAN FRANCISCO Ho hum, another U.S. Open, another final-day,
final-group pairing. For Tom Lehman it's getting to be as
predictable as the contents of all those long, wrapped, rectangular
boxes that so many dear old dads will be tearing open today.
A tie for Father's Day? If you're Lehman, you're thinking:
Please, no, not another one like the tie for second in 1996. And,
for that matter, no more solo third-place finishes, either, like in
1995 and 1997.
Lehman has gone into the final round of the U.S. Open with the
lead each of the last three years and lost. He has seen one of the
four greatest gifts in professional golf slip through his fingers.
The title eluded him by three shots in 1995, by one shot in 1996
and by two shots last year.
The snakebit 1996 British Open champion heads into today's final
round tied for second with Bob Tway after equaling the low score of
the third round Saturday with a 2-under-par 68.
This time the pole position and all the pressure belong to
Lehman's playing partner Payne Stewart. He opened Saturday with an
eagle-3, closed it with three straight pars and in between took
whatever the Olympic Club's stingy Lake Course would give him to
tack on a 70 to his earlier rounds of 66 and 71. His 54-hole total
of 207 is four better than Lehman and Tway, who shot a 73.
Nick Price followed a second-round 68 with a 71 to stand tied
for fourth with Lee Janzen (73). It made for some leaderboard as
all four of the players directly behind Stewart Lehman, Tway,
Price and Janzen have won a major.
Then there's Jim Furyk, who has come oh-so-close to winning his
first Grand Slam title, finishing no worse than sixth in the past
four majors. He carded a 68, same as Lehman, and is eight shots
back, at 215.
Like Lehman, Stewart is treading in familiar territory. He led
after three rounds of the 1991 U.S. Open at Hazeltine National Golf
Club in Lehman's home state of Minnesota. The experience ended well
for Stewart, albeit belatedly, as he defeated Scott Simpson in a
Monday playoff.
Since lassoing his first-and-only major, Stewart, 41, has won
only once on the PGA Tour (the 1995 Houston Open). He is the first
to admit his priorities have changed over the past few years, with
family supplanting golf as his abiding passion.
He has trimmed his tournament schedule to make time for his two
children, Chelsea, 12, and Aaron, 9. Stewart wants to be there for
them, as much as he can, just as his late father was for him.
Phil Stewart was a good enough golfer to compete as an amateur
in the 1955 U.S. Open on the same Olympic Club course Stewart has,
to this point, hog-tied. The elder Stewart didn't fare nearly as
well, shooting rounds of 83 and 88 to miss the cut.
Of course, as Bee Stewart felt compelled to point out to her son
Saturday, the rough 43 years ago was knee-high, instead of ankle
deep. Given that Stewart missed seven of 14 fairways Saturday, he
should give thanks for small blessings.
While he is at it, Stewart should kiss his putter; aside from
the most-replayed putt of the tournament (his 3-putt on the
diabolical 18th Friday), Stewart has been able to conquer all the
greens in two strokes or less.
He vowed to play the course the same way today as he has all
week. He'll leave the prevent defense to his beloved Dallas Cowboys
and aim for the flag, but only when there's a clear opening. That
was the case on No. 1 when he hit a driver off the tee, a 5-iron
second shot to 20 feet and made the putt.
Lehman has beat himself up over his near misses some, but not
much. He, more than most, has a firm grasp of what's really
important, which is why he could be found after his round on the
practice range, stopping between swings to watch his 8-year-old
daughter Rachael hit golf balls with his 5-iron.
ANAHEIM In the posh new visitors' clubhouse at Edison Field, a
side door leads to a well-appointed gym. In there, among other
fitness equipment, is a bench-press rack with 45-pound disks, a
curling bar, some enormous dumbbells and the requisite mirror
covering an entire wall.
(For some strange reason, all of this lies just beyond one table
laden with doughnuts and another heaped with a decadent array of
candy.)
When the Texas Rangers hit town this weekend, several players
puffed and sweated in the room in the mid-afternoon, but Juan
Gonzalez, breaking from one-time routine, wouldn't step near it. He
remained at his locker, lifting nothing more than the corners of
his mouth.
Texas has played 73 games this season and Gonzalez has appeared
in each and every one of them, along the way rifling bullets to all
fields and driving in 88 runs, a major-league lead that even Mark
McGwire can't touch. If Gonzalez can maintain that pace for 158
games this year, he would break a major-league RBI record that has
stood for 68 years since Hack Wilson of the Chicago Cubs drove in
190 in 1930.
In the past, any such bid was always foiled by a lengthy absence
to injury. Gonzalez has not reached the 135-game mark in any of his
last four seasons. Why, even when he won the American League Most
Valuable Player award in 1996 he missed 28 games because of injury which is an indication of just how thoroughly he can savage
pitching when he is sound.
The maladies were the type that screamed out for increased
flexibility torn quadriceps, herniated disk in his back, strained
groin, torn cartilage in his knee, torn ligament in his thumb.
Don't assume, however, that Gonzalez now spends his spare time
visiting one of those snack tables in the clubhouse.
Just as much work as before, but with a vastly different
emphasis: stretching and light weights.
McGwire attracts hordes when he takes batting practice, because
his hitting stroke is the type that takes the breath away dead
pull, uppercut, launching balls to the deepest reaches of the
left-field seats.
When Gonzalez stepped into the cage before a game with the
Angels on Friday afternoon, it generated barely a ripple of
excitement. Here's why: His first 17 cuts produced hits up the
middle or to right field, with only one ball carrying the wall. Low
liners jumped off his bat and threatened to leave dents in the
right-center wall.
A couple of hours later, on a low-and-away fastball that the
Angels' Chuck Finley had appeared to spot perfectly, Gonzalez
lashed a double into the right-center gap that cleared the bases.
By all accounts, the maturity is clearly evident in this former
mercurial and reckless young man. Being divorced three times by age
28 is sure to weather anyone.
The words reflect the brimming optimism of a guy who has gone
nearly three months in a rigorous sport without missing a day's
work.
LOS ANGELES My father is a formidable figure, with a booming
voice and a personality that eclipses his 6-foot-2 frame. People
who meet him assume he once ran interference for a hotshot tailback
at some prestigious university. But World War II shot down my
father's college plans and his athletic career.
That's not why my dad went to extraordinary ends to spring me,
his firstborn, for gains so great they're still being measured. He
wasn't living vicariously through my athletic endeavors, just
evening a score.
His father had been largely indifferent to his sporting
pursuits. His disinterest was a sore on my father's childhood that
festered and left him scarred well into adulthood. He vowed early
on his children would grow up knowing unequivocally that he cared.
So in the fall of 1972, when I announced swimming looked like a
lot of fun after watching Mark Spitz race to seven gold medals at
the Munich Olympics, my father moved almost as swiftly as Spitz
had.
Little did he know, as he set out the next day for the Santa
Clara Swim Club, the life he was about to enrich (other than his
child's) was his own.
The truth was, I was laughably short and scrawny. But I had my
father's drive and both my parents' unflagging support and in
the first year I went from being a novice to a member of an
age-group relay team that was ranked No. 1 in the country.
I would swim competitively for 11 more years and I can count on
one hand the number of swim meets my father missed until I moved
away to college. Win or lose, he was always there for me at the end
of the race, with a big hug (and, on occasion, a handkerchief to
wipe away the tears).
My pursuit of excellence would cost my father hundreds of
Saturday golf games, countless fishing trips and one job promotion
(it entailed a move across the country that my father feared would
disrupt my progress in the pool).
But what he gained was priceless: A bond with his daughter
that's the envy of all his golf-playing, pleasure-seeking,
corporate ladder-climbing cronies.
Our relationship is the envy of my friends, too, many of whom
grew up with fathers who stayed well in the periphery of their
daily lives (indeed, there were many high school meets where mine
was the only father in the seats). Once they got over being
intimidated by the mere sight and sound of my father, my friends
soaked up his attention like dry skin does lotion.
I, of course, basked in my father's company. Of all the things
we did together, I enjoyed our car rides the most. We spent hours
in the automobile, driving to and from swimming pools all over the
state.
We passed the time talking about everything under the sun. No
subject was too trivial or terrible to broach. Our rapport was such
that I trusted my father's judgment explicitly.
That's why I didn't argue when he told me on the way home from
swim practice one night that it was time to look for a new club. I
was 16 then and much older when I found out one of my coaches that
night had told my father I could go a long way with a little help
from certain chemicals.
When it came time to visiting colleges, it seemed perfectly
natural that my father ride shotgun. The night he left me in the
care of some swimmers at USC, my dad walked to a nearby restaurant
to grab a bite to eat. As he was walking back to his hotel, a
stranger appeared out of nowhere and blocked his path.
And yet he let me go, to find my own way, as he knew even the
most loving father must.
I was out of sight but never out of his mind. My first year in
college, my father flew to L.A. to surprise me at our conference
swim meet at East L.A. College. The only problem was, he drove to
West L.A. College by mistake. Somehow he managed to find his way to
the right pool in time to catch my big race.
Devotion, thy name is Dad. For mine and every other one out
there like him, this day's for you.
Same goes for their rivals, though, who lost their opener to
Yugoslavia and figure they'll have little hope against the Germans.
If the political pressure from home is greater on Iran, the
sporting pressure is greater on the US, which came here
legitimately hoping to make the second round, then played like awed
amateurs for the first half of a 2-0 loss to the Germans.
So the US is determined to attack the Iranians from the opening
whistle, create multiple scoring chances, and knock in at least a
couple of goals. That hasn't happened often this year, but the
Yanks concede that it had better happen Sunday.
The Yanks were imposed upon by the Germans, giving up a goal in
the ninth minute and not managing a shot on goal until the 30th.
Not this time, vows their coach, who said his squad will be running
and banging and risking from the go.
Even so, the Americans concede that beating Iran won't be easy,
even though the Iranians needed a near-miracle to qualify. They
know Iran will come in pumped to the skies by the idea of knocking
off Uncle Sam. They remember that Iran came from two goals down
with 14 minutes left to tie Australia on the road to get here. And
they've seen the videos of Iran's 1-0 loss to Yugoslavia, when the
goal came on a free kick 18 minutes from time.
Iran's top three stars strikers Ali Daei and Khodadad Azizi
and midfielder Karim Bagheri all play for clubs in Germany's
Bundesliga. They supply the punch in Talebi's counterattacking
3-5-2 system, which allows them to free-lance.
If the Americans are too careless going forward, the Iranians
will sting them on the counter. But after scoring in only one of
its last four matches, the US can't afford to worry about getting
caught upfield. Timidity in the World Cup gets you an early ticket
home.
Iran hasn't played in the Cup since 1978 and doesn't expect to
win a match here. The Americans, who reached the second round last
time, have beaten the Brazilians this year. The Iranians, who are
on their fourth coach since November, lost, 7-1, to AS Roma last
month.
If the Americans defeat Iran by two goals and Germany does the
same to Yugoslavia, the US can advance by tying the Yugoslavs in
Nantes on Thursday. But the goal-differential arithmetic can wait
SAN FRANCISCO This time, Tom Lehman does not have to carry the
burden of the lead into the final round of the U.S. Open. That
weight belongs to Payne Stewart.
Ben Hogan, Arnold Palmer and Tom Watson took the lead into the
final round in 1955, '66 and '87, respectively. No one came out
alive. Palmer blew a 7-shot lead over the last nine holes, then an
18-hole playoff to Billy Casper the next day.
But Stewart has a bit of history working for him, too. His
4-shot lead is the largest since Tony Jacklin led the 1970 Open at
Hazeltine near Minneapolis. And Jacklin ended up winning by 7
shots.
Without question, Stewart said, he would sooner be out front
than trying to catch up. History doesn't bother him one bit.
Saturday was a tough day to play golf, as only three of the
remaining 60 players broke par. When the last ball had floated
through the ocean breeze and quit rolling on the hard, tight
fairways, only Stewart was under par for 54 holes.
Stewart, who has only one victory since his '91 Open win (1995
Houston Open), got his day off to a fast start, running in an eagle
at the first hole from 18 feet. There also was a spectacular 7-iron
at No. 8 that settled within tap-in range for another birdie. Even
though he made three bogeys, there were big saves at the 17th and
18th holes.
Lehman's 68 tied him for the low round of the day, and it began
almost as incredibly, as he ran in three straight birdies. Too bad
for him they were followed by three straight bogeys.
Tway hung on all day, absorbing three bogeys and a double. But
he managed to sink a 3-foot birdie at the 18th for a 73 that kept
him within striking distance.
Two other big hitters, Nick Price (71) and Lee Janzen (73), who
edged Stewart in the 1993 Open at Baltusrol, also were right there.
But it might be a reach for Steve Stricker (69) and Jeff Maggert
(75), who trailed by 6 strokes.
Pre-tournament favorites Tiger Woods (71, 7 over), David Duval
(75, 8 over) and defending champ Ernie Els (75, 10 over) are out of
the chase. Along with Casey Martin (74, 9 over), they have early
tee times today.
Maybe it will be the difference for Lehman, who has finished
third, second and third the past three years while waiting to play
late in the day in the Eastern time zone in New York (Shinnecock),
Michigan (Oakland Hills) and Washington, D.C. (Congressional). 
SAN FRANCISCO It won't be the knickers. It won't be the cart.
It won't be the expletives directed at pin placement or a bunch of
whiny golfers commiserating about the course. The enduring symbol
of the U.S. Open and maybe the entire season will be the smile.
It started in Georgia, bigger than Mark O'Meara's green jacket.
It has stretched all the way to California, brighter than Payne
Stewart's wardrobe. And it belongs to an amateur who is baffling
experts with his poise, melting galleries with his grin.
The look of a teen who just scored a fake ID and front-row
tickets for Megadeth.
Matt Kuchar turns 20 today, and already he is teaching his
peers. If everyone could loosen up and enjoy himself like this kid,
well, golf wouldn't desperately need a visit from the fun police.
So the fantasy exploded Saturday afternoon, a string of bogeys
that spiked Kuchar's chances of becoming the first amateur in 65
years to win the Open. Doesn't matter because through it all, the
smile remained. It was contagious and emerged after every shot. And
when he approached the 18th green, the gallery gave him a standing
ovation.
Sure, they understood the magnitude of it all. Kuchar, who just
finished his sophomore year at Georgia Tech, isn't even the best
player on his college team. He didn't win an NCAA championship. He
didn't even win the conference tournament.
Yet in two of golf's headline events, Kuchar has been
unflappable. He shot even par at the Masters, tying for 21st place,
walking away from $40,000 because of his amateur status. And after
50 holes at the Open, Kuchar was in third place, taming a course
that sent most of the field searching for liquid aspirin.
For two days, Kuchar was paired with the Ernie Els and Justin
Leonard, defending champions from the U.S. and British Open. After
36 holes, he flattened both by a combined 13 strokes.
Even more solid: In the four professional tournaments Kuchar has
entered, his worst round is 76. It happened at Augusta, when
howling winds descended upon the second round. It happened
Saturday, when the boa constrictor known as The Olympic Club
finally put the squeeze on Kuchar.
By golfing standards, the Kuchars might be having too much fun,
the kid stealing the show, the father/caddie pumping his fists
after every good shot. On Friday, Leonard was asked whether the
histrionics emoting from the elder Kuchar were a bit over the top.
Now that final exams are over, Kuchar has a tough decision to
make. He doesn't want to shut the door on college, but he is
thriving on the allure of big-time golf. He must decide whether to
turn pro, cashing in his innocence for prize money. And somewhere,
a toothpaste company has discovered the perfect spokesman.
But all of that can wait. For now, he has one more day in the
sun, one more day to bask in a love affair that has turned his
peers a shade of green and the golfing world on its ear.
They were left in the rain at Coors Field, hoping to squeeze
another victory out of their final at-bat and wondering if they can
afford to lose anyone else.
When Eric Karros and Raul Mondesi failed to score the tying run
from second in the ninth, the Dodgers' had their answer. Their 7-6
loss to the Colorado Rockies was coupled with news that Bobby
Bonilla was headed to the disabled list with a viral infection that
might be the reason he has played so poorly since his arriving last
month.
A victory on the night that first-place San Diego lost for the
first time in 12 games would have been the Dodgers' third straight
and a little bright spot as Martinez tries to decide whether to
have shoulder surgery.
Reyes allowed a three-run homer to Ellis Burks in the fourth and
was lucky it wasn't worse. Mondesi took a three-run shot away from
Vinny Castilla in the first inning with a leaping catch at the
wall.
But Reyes' erratic performance put pressure on the young Dodgers
lineup that included Paul Konerko at third, Roger Cedeno in left
and Juan Castro at second.
Cedeno had two hits and an RBI, and Castro scored twice. But
Konerko went 0 for 4. Overall, the team had six players on the
roster with a year or less major-league experience.
The victory went to former Dodgers left-hander Mike Munoz (1-0),
the second of five Rockies relievers to pitch after starter John
Thomson was scratched because of a blister on his right middle
finger.
The Dodgers actually scored first when Cedeno's third-inning
single scored Castro. But Burks came back in the fourth with a
433-foot drive deep into the left-field bleachers for his 13th
homer.
Jim Bruske came on and got buried. The worst of it was an RBI
single by Burks, a run-scoring double by Greg Colbrunn and a
two-run single by Mike Lansing.
The Dodgers cut the lead to 7-5 in the seventh with a three-run
double by Karros, who has two homers and nine RBI in the series.
One of the runners was rookie Matt Luke, who had a pinch single off
Curtis Leskanic in his first at-bat since rejoining the club
earlier in the day.
Luke played 33 games for the Dodgers before being designated for
assignment May 29. He was claimed by Cleveland and had two pinch
at-bats before being designated again June 9.
The Rockies went into the ninth with right-hander Jerry DiPoto,
who allowed a game-winning homer to Karros the night before.
DiPoto allowed an RBI double to Gary Sheffield and Dave Veres
was brought in to face Karros with the tying run at second.
Karros struck out on a 1-2 off-speed pitch, leaving the game to
Mondesi, who still is a little hobbled by the left ankle he
sprained in San Diego.
Jones, seeking to become the first woman in 50 years to win the
100, 200 and long jump in the USA Track and Field Championships,
can complete the triple with a triumph today in the 200 meters.
Jones took a big step toward the historic triple Saturday night
at Tad Gormley Stadium, winning the 100 meters in 10.72 seconds and
the long jump with a wind-aided 23 feet, 8 inches. The nine-time
state champion from Thousand Oaks High also won her 200 semifinal
in 22.46 seconds for the top qualifying mark for the final.
So is John Godina, who became the first man to win the shot put
and discus in 43 years despite competing with torn cartilage in his
right shoulder. Godina, who won the discus late Friday night for
his second consecutive national title, was never challenged in his
quest for his first national shot-put title.
Godina, the two-time world shot-put champion, won with a put of
71-2}. The former UCLA standout's six efforts were 68-10 or better
to outdistance runner-up C.J. Hunter (68-4).
Jones started her journey toward the historic triple with a
victory in the 100. Jones got off to a slow start, but her mark was
only a hundredth off her world-leading 10.71 that she ran in Friday
night's semifinals.
Saturday's mark of 10.72 ranks as the seventh-fastest, trailing
only four marks by Florence Griffith-Joyner, the world record
holder at 10.49, and Jones' two times of 10.71 run this season.
In Saturday's 100 final, Inger Miller and Chryste Gaines had the
edge on Jones out of the blocks. Jones, however, assumed command by
the 30-meter mark en route to a comfortable victory. Gaines was
second in 10.89 to become the ninth-fastest American. Miller,
hampered by tendinitis in her knee, was third in 11.12 and Torri
Edwards of USC was fourth in 11.20.
Jones took only two of her six attempts in the long jump,
posting her winning leap of 23-8 on her first jump and fouling on
the second before heading off to run in the 200 semifinals. Jones,
the world-leader at 23-11}, still won by more than a foot over
Shana Williams and Dawn Burrell, who were second and third with
identical marks of 22-7.
Heat and humidity took its toll on 1997 world champion Maurice
Greene and Dennis Mitchell, who scratched from the 100 because of
cramps.
Tim Harden, aided by a gust of 4.9 meters per second, won in
9.88 with Brian Lewis second in 9.98.
UCLA sophomore Seilala Sua, the two time NCAA champion,
unleashed an effort of 204-2 on her sixth and final attempt to win
the women's discus.
Regina Jacobs, the seven-time national 1,500-meter champion, won
her first 5,000 title in 15:32.31. Jacobs, a 1981 graduate of the
Argyll Academy, now known as Campbell Hall, pulled away from Libbie
Hickman in the final quarter to win by more than eight seconds.
Mike Bibby has spent most of his life listening to guys in
striped shirts, knowing they always had the final word. But this
was different. This striped shirt was working at a Foot Locker in a
local mall and was bragging to some of Bibby's friends that he
could take Bibby in a game of one-on-one.
Bibby declined, figuring he had nothing to prove. But he finds
it a little humorous, and irritating, that everyone seems to be a
Mike Bibby expert these days.
It is the curse of the young and the talented that people look
intently for wrinkles on faces that are barely past the Clearasil
stage.
It is not familiar territory for Bibby, who has been a phenom
since his early teens, but it's not unexpected, either. The Los
Angeles Clippers are expected to pick Bibby with the first
selection in Wednesday's NBA draft, so the scrutiny of Bibby's
skills is inevitable.
The son of Henry Bibby, the former UCLA and NBA point guard,
Mike Bibby always has seemed destined for greatness. At Shadow
Mountain High School, he set state records for scoring, and the
Matadors won the state championship his senior season.
In his first game at Arizona, he scored 22 points against North
Carolina. He helped the Wildcats to a national championship in his
freshman season. He was a first-team All-American as a sophomore.
His decision to leave college two years early for the NBA looks
wise because even if the Clippers don't take him, he probably will
be among the top five picks.
Now, however, there are doubts. Is Bibby ready to play in the
NBA? Can he battle Gary Payton, John Stockton and Jason Kidd and
still help turn around one of the league's worst franchises? Can he
handle the constant questions that will come about his estranged
father, now basketball coach at Southern California, which plays in
the same building as the Clippers, the Los Angeles Sports Arena?
They are legitimate questions to ask of a kid who became a
father at 19, who has few interests outside of basketball, family,
playing video games and going to the mall.
Others wonder. Point guard is probably the toughest position to
play in the NBA, particularly for a rookie who is drafted by a bad
team.
Most analysts regard this as a weak draft. Players who are now
considered to be top seven picks, including Bibby, would be picked
seventh to 15th in normal years, Babcock said. The 6-foot-2,
194-pound Bibby is regarded as the best point guard in the draft. But he
doesn't have much competition for that honor.
Dick Percudani, Suns director of college scouting, has seen
Bibby play several times over the past two years, and he questions
whether Bibby will be an impact player in the NBA.
The question is one of value. The Clippers desperately need help
in the backcourt, but would a big man such as Michael Olowokandi, a
7-1 center from Pacific, be a better value?
The Clippers aren't revealing much. General Manager Elgin Baylor
is impressed with Bibby and thought he looked good in a private
workout for the team, but he hasn't committed to taking Bibby.
Having the top pick is not always as easy as selecting Tim Duncan,
as San Antonio did last year.
When told of these comments, Bibby gave the appearance of
shrugging them off. But his voice became edgy, his sentences
clipped. He held his tongue, but it was clear he was seething.
Haters? Scouts voicing opinions hardly fall into that category.
But Bibby isn't finished. He said he's accustomed to what he sees
as disrespect for his ability.
He is not worried, he said, about competing with the Paytons,
the Stocktons and the Kidds. He is not worried about his ability to
run a team, to make his teammates better, to handle the pressure.
He thinks he'll reward the general manager who puts a basketball,
and a team, in his hands.
Those close to Bibby have no doubts that he will succeed in the
NBA. Members of the Arizona coaching staff said they never have had
anyone work harder. From the day he set foot on campus, Bibby spent
nearly every day working on his game. Even after three-hour
practices, he and roommate Josh Pastner worked through various
shooting drills.
After this season ended, Bibby and Pastner still awoke at 5 a.m.
just so they could be the first ones in the gym.
Royce Youree, a veteran high school and college coach, coached
Bibby in a summer league a few years ago and agrees with
Rosborough.
That's where Bibby is most uncomfortable. At Arizona, he often
slipped out after a game to avoid reporters. And he has been known
to conduct interviews while never looking up from a magazine to
make eye contact with reporters.
Still, he said he doesn't mind the attention, he said, unless it
gets personal. Since high school, he has been asked constantly
about his father, with whom he has no relationship. For the past
few years, he has refused to answer questions about his dad.
Mike Bibby has been criticized by some for fathering a child out
of wedlock, which he thinks is unfair. On the court, he can
retaliate for perceived slights by making plays. Off the court, he
has little power to fight the criticism, and that's something
that's difficult for a 20-year-old to accept.
He and his girlfriend, whom he declines to name, are together,
and Bibby spends considerable time with his son, Michael Dane, who
was born in December.
He knows people behind his back joke that Bibby will fit in
perfectly in the NBA, where many players have fathered children out
of wedlock. He has been lumped in with other athletes, such as
Latrell Sprewell, as an example of today's spoiled athletes.
Bibby and his mother are extremely close, but she doesn't pamper
him constantly. Recently, a reporter had an interview scheduled
with Bibby, who seemed more interested in working out. But his
mother told him emphatically that he was going to do it. And he
did.
She also doesn't think her son deserves applause for accepting
the responsibility of fatherhood and spending time with his son.
Everyone close to Bibby raves about the job his mother did in
raising him. He is unfailingly polite to strangers and never
declined an autograph request at Arizona, where Wildcats players
are the most recognized people in town.
Following Falk's advice, the Clippers are the only team Bibby
has visited in the weeks preceding the draft. Clippers officials
aren't saying much about their draft intentions and are rumored to
be interested in trading the pick. There is also speculation they
might draft Olowokandi, especially if they fear losing center Isaac
Austin through free agency.
In that case, Bibby could drop a few spots. He said it doesn't
matter to him. If it happens, then he'll have something to prove to
the Clippers, as well as to the guy at Foot Locker.
LYON, France In simpler times, a demonstration was what a
door-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman offered to give the lady of
the house.
In Tehran, there would be dancing, singing, weeping. The
explosion of national pride might rival the scene that erupted in
November after Iran, playing in Melbourne, Australia, qualified for
the World Cup for the first time in 20 years. In a passionate
outpouring, 2 million citizens including 5,000 women who ignored
police instructions to stay home filled the streets. Women ripped
off their government-mandated veils. When the team returned home,
Iranians welcomed them, packing 120,000-seat Azadi stadium.
The U.S. team, of course, hopes to prevent a day (or days) of
rapturous glee.
Few Iranian players appear to regard the American team as an
emissary of the Great Satan. Their coach, Jalal Talebi, spent 17
years in the United States. A kind, soft-spoken man, Talebi
sometimes answers even Persian questions in fluent English. He
would make an excellent ambassador.
Most American players are too young to remember the hostage
crisis in Iran almost 20 years ago. To a man, they repeat the
it's-just-another-big-game quote, and downplay the political
overtones.
But this is isn't just the next game. The world's most popular
sporting event has given Iran a major place on an international
stage for the first time since the revolution led by Ayatollah
Khomenei overthrew the Shah in 1979.
Iranians have the opportunity to show themselves as sportsmen
and fans, not as terrorists and religious fanatics, which is how
they are perceived in the West.
Win, lose or honorable tie, U.S. players plan to shake hands
with the Iranians afterward. Several said they hope to exchange
gifts.
Seven years later, as the draft returns to upstate New York,
another physical center with Lindros-like proportions has emerged
as hockey's most coveted choice.
In 58 games last season for Rimouski Oceananic in the Quebec
junior league, Lecavalier racked up 44 goals and 115 points along
with 117 penalty minutes. Central Scouting gave him grades of 10s
in hockey sense and puck-handling, nine in competitiveness, and
eights in skating, checking and physical play.
Lesuk and the Coyotes would love to have him. But Lecavalier
will be long gone by the time Phoenix makes its first pick with the
14th overall selection.
Unless the Coyotes make their third major trade in two weeks, of
course, and ship out yet another core player for the rights to the
shining, can't-miss 18-year-old. The team recently traded top-line
center Craig Janney and popular enforcer Jim McKenzie. But don't
count on seeing Lecavalier in a Coyotes sweater.
As sure as Joe Thornton was bound for Boston as last year's
consensus No. 1 pick, Lecavalier is headed for Tampa Bay, which
maneuvered itself into grabbing the first pick after it changed
hands from Florida to San Jose.
The Panthers gave it to the Sharks last November for Viktor
Kozlov. Originally the No. 3 pick at the time, it became the No. 1
pick when San Jose won the draft lottery in May. The Sharks,
though, sent it to the Lightning, in part, for Bryan Marchment.
San Jose will still make out on Saturday. The Sharks hold the
No. 2 pick and will be overjoyed at drafting the other top center
in the field, David Legwand of Gross Pointe, Mich., if Lecavalier
goes to Tampa as expected. Legwand, who is 6-1{ and 175 pounds,
scored 10 more goals than Lecavalier did last season, netting 54
and 105 points for Plymouth in the Ontario League.
Many scouts have the two rated evenly. Central Scouting gave
Legwand 10s in skating, hockey sense and puckhandling and an eight
in competitiveness. He drew only sixes in checking and physical
play, but he's being compared to Mike Modano of the Dallas Stars,
the No. 1 pick in the 1988 draft.
One scout said Legwand will be a franchise player and
consistently rank among the NHL's top 10 in scoring by the time he
is 24. Others have made similar remarks, which doesn't sit well
with Lecavalier.
The expansion Nashville Predators, who begin play next season
and will raid each of the existing 26 NHL teams by taking at least
one player from every club in Friday's expansion draft, pick third
overall. They are followed, in order, by Vancouver, Anaheim,
Calgary and the New York Rangers. Toronto, the New York Islanders
and Chicago round out the top 10.
Carolina picks 11th, Colorado 12th with the first of four
first-round picks, and Edmonton is 13th. Then, it's up to the
Coyotes, who lost their first-round pick last year in the Jeremy
Roenick trade with the Blackhawks. Phoenix's first pick last year
was second-rounder Juha Gustafsson, a defenseman from Finland.
Although this year's draft class isn't seen as very deep after
the first handful of picks, Phoenix should find itself a solid
prospect at No. 14 to fit any one of its four or five major needs:
a goal-scoring left winger to eventually complement Keith Tkachuk;
a speedy top-line right wing who can finish; a capable goalie who
can fill a backup role within two to three years; and both an
offensive and defensive defenseman.
Fata, who scored 43 goals and 76 points, might fall to them at
that spot. But if 6-2, 195-pound left wing Ramzi Abid is still on
the board, he might be too hard to pass up. Rated as the 11th-best
prospect by Central Scouting, he led the Quebec league in scoring
with 50 goals, 85 assists and 135 points in 68 games. He also
posted Tkachuk-like numbers in the penalty box 266 minutes in
all.
Abid is Tunisian by descent but was born in Montreal. The only
thing that scares some scouts away from him is his skating, which
has been ranked at a five on a scale to 10. Tkachuk's wheels
wouldn't rate much better, but it's the overall game that counts
most. And remember, Abid's a left winger, too.
Czech defenseman Jiri Fischer (6-5{, 210) might be tough for the
Coyotes to pass up if he's still available. Ditto with 6-3 Ottawa
center Mark Bell, who scored 34 goals and has been compared to a
young Bobby Smith by his juniors coach, Brian Kilrea, who also
coached Smith, it should be noted.
The top goalie prospect is Patrick DesRochers, a 6-3{,
195-pounder who went 26-17-11 with a respectable 3.35 goals-against
average for Sarnia in the Ontario league.
ST. LOUIS If batting practice is becoming a distraction to
Mark McGwire, what will happen if he's sitting at 55 home runs with
a full month remaining in the season?
Of course, not everyone who plays this game gets the same
reception. In today's game, McGwire is an unrivaled home- run
hitter. The very best in his field and quite possibly the best
ever.
He has hit a home run every 11.54 at-bats, better than anyone in
the history of the game, including Babe Ruth, who is next at 11.76.
Baseball's sluggers have always lived in a specially reserved
loft, receiving far more attention than anyone else in the game
because they can consistently accomplish the most difficult feat in
the game hitting the ball over the fence.
So when the rare ones come along, the type who hit them farther
than anyone else ever has, the attention dial is turned up
considerably. McGwire knows very well what will happen if he gets
within striking distance of Roger Maris' single-season home run
record of 61.
The media circus will descend upon him to the point where he
will feel smothered. McGwire said he felt stifled last week when
the Cardinals came to Bank One Ballpark and then to Houston, cities
where he had never before played.
This is the same freckle-faced kid who came out of Southern
California and was blown away when reporters constantly wanted to
talk to him during his first year in the majors in 1987, when
McGwire shattered the rookie record for home runs with 49.
But that's where McGwire is wrong. He's now playing in a city
that appreciates and recognizes greatness, not what's become the
wasteland in Oakland, where he spent his first 10 years.
During his first years in the majors, one of McGwire's biggest
problems was his reluctance to say no to most requests. His mother
and father, both of whom are in St. Louis this weekend, taught
McGwire and his three brothers to be respectful of others.
McGwire has learned to say no, both to reporters and fans. He's
had to. He is still one of the most accommodating superstars in the
game, a trait that has made him one of the most well-liked athletes
in sports.
Along the way, McGwire has probably shattered some fans'
perception of him. But it's never been spiteful or malicious.
The spotlight will become brighter during the All-Star Game
festivities, where tickets to the home run-hitting contest might
become a tougher ticket than the game on Tuesday.
McGwire is no zoo animal. He is, however, the greatest spectacle
in the game today. Just remember, he is human. Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail. 
ST. LOUIS The Diamondbacks, full of life after a three-game
sweep of the Reds in Cincinnati, appear to be falling back into a
rut against the St. Louis Cardinals.
Their bullpen unraveled, and when their hitters were given the
opportunity to help the Cardinals' bullpen come apart at the seams,
they couldn't get the job done.
The result was a second straight loss, 4-2, on Saturday night in
front of a sellout crowd at Busch Stadium.
Despite giving up four walks and three hits, right-hander Amaury
Telemaco managed to play Houdini and escape trouble to hold the
Cardinals scoreless in his first start as a Diamondback.
He had a 1-0 lead, in fact, thanks to a bloop ground-rule RBI
double by Karim Garcia in the fourth inning. The hit came off
right-hander Manny Aybar, making the start in place of injured
left-hander Kent Mercker.
The lead could have been bigger. Jay Bell and Garcia were
stranded at third and second, respectively, when Kelly Stinnett
fouled out to end the inning.
And, the Diamondbacks probably should have scored in the second
inning. Instead of waiting for a chance for Stinnett or Telemaco to
drive in Bell, who had singled and moved to third on left fielder
Ron Gant's error, Manager Buck Showalter sent Bell toward the plate
as Garcia made contact. Bell was easily thrown out by Cardinals
shortstop Royce Clayton.
Right-hander Willie Banks took over for Telemaco in the fifth
and challenged the Cardinals' 2-3-4 hitters, getting Delino
DeShields on a comebacker to the mound and striking out Mark
McGwire and Brian Jordan.
He surrendered singles to the first two batters, Ray Lankford
and Willie McGee, and those two men later scored Lankford on a
groundout by Tom Lampkin and McGee on a bases-loaded walk to
DeShields.
Right-hander Clint Sodowsky came in to face McGwire, and got him
on the first pitch on a fielder's-choice grounder.
The Diamondbacks' biggest opportunity came in the seventh, when
Bell led off with a single and Stinnett and pinch-hitter Yamil
Benitez walked to load the bases against right-handed reliever John
Frascatore.
Showalter went to right-hander Felix Rodriguez in the seventh,
but he gave up a leadoff single to Jordan and a two-run homer to
Lankford for a 4-1 lead.
Stinnett, who homered in the Diamondbacks' previous visit here
in mid-April, hit a one-out solo shot, his sixth of the season, off
right-hander Rick Croushore in the ninth. But it was too late.
Croushore struck out pinch-hitter Mike Robertson and got Batista
on a comebacker to end the game.
Showalter said Telemaco was to have been limited to between 60
and 70 pitches, but was allowed to go to 74. Showalter was mildly
pleased, and said Telemaco had earned another start, which will
come in an interleague game against Texas on Thursday at Bank One
Ballpark.
An (x) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above. A (b) indicates that some bookstores
report receiving bulk orders for a book.
An (x) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above. A (b) indicates that some bookstores
report receiving bulk orders for a book.
Rankings reflect sales figures for the week ending June 13,
1998, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000
other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in all
such outlets nationwide. The number of titles within the two
subdivisions of non-fiction can change from week to week,
reflecting changes in book buying.
An (x) following a book's ranking indicates that a book's sales
are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A (b)
indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for a
book.
Rankings reflect sales figures for the week ending June 13,
1998, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000
other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in all
such outlets nationwide. The number of titles within the two
subdivisions of non-fiction can change from week to week,
reflecting changes in book buying.
An (x) following a book's ranking indicates that a book's sales
are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A (b)
indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for a
book.
This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Monday, June
22, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.
Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDT
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
EDT Monday-Friday.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
IRANUS TEHRAN, Iran Now that they're playing soccer
together, what are the attitudes in Iran to opening up a better
relationship with the United States. (Kaplow, Cox News Service).
TRIP WASHINGTON Behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's
five-city tour lie countless strategy meetings, site inspections,
event consultations and back-room skull sessions . It's all the
work of a temporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats,
security agents, communications experts, transportation
specialists, physicians and even chefs who have come together in
recent months to plan the presidential trip to China. (Deans, Cox
News Service).
BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON What's ahead for a House-passed bill
that would force people who declare bankruptcy to pay back more of
their debts, if they can. (Harlan, Cox News Service).
HOWIE You know him as Howie Mandel, the standup comic who's
championed bullhorn-style wackiness for years. Today, meet Howard
Mandel, TV's newest daytime talk show host. (Harris, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution). 19.
GA-FLA 0622 Follow on the Georgia-Florida high school game,
including an idea officials are discussing about moving the 1999
game to December and tying it into the Peach Bowl festivities.
(Towers, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 12.
SAN FRANCISCO Playing and dressing as if he were on another
planet, Payne Stewart continued to set himself apart from the field
at the U.S. Open Friday in a style that was all his own.
He hit a cyprus tree and made birdie. He buried a few balls in
the unkempt rough and slapped another into the grandstand and still
salvaged pars. He bent putts across double-sloped greens and danced
like he was at a Greatful Dead Concert when they lipped the cup and
dropped in.
But then the unreality and gravity of the Olympic Club Lake
Course finally began to exact its toll. Holding a five-stroke lead
at one point, Stewart slipped from 7-under to 3-under on the back
nine, capped by one of the strangest birdie attempts ever witnessed
by Stewart or anyone else.
Sitting pin-high with eight feet to go for a four-stroke lead,
Stewart's birdie try on 18 slipped around the hole, gently rolled
at an angle down the severe slope of the green and didn't stop
until he had a 25-footer coming back uphill. He missed, made bogey
and then ran up to the clubhouse with a slim one-stroke lead over
Jeff Maggert and Bob Tway.
Wearing his trademark plaid knickers and jaunty red cap, Stewart
certainly could not be mistaken for someone who was ready to
tighten up like the rest of the first-round leaders at the fabled
course. But the putt on 18 put a damper on his good vibrations,
which began with three straight birdies.
Washington state native Kirk Triplett had a similar putt not
long after Stewart's, and he stopped the ball from rolling back
with his putter an infraction that cost him a two-stroke penalty
and put him well out of contention to make the cut.
On the more normal side of the spectrum, the day also belonged
to button-downed 19-year-old U.S. Amateur champ Matt Kuchar, who
had four birdies to go with one bogey, a double bogey and the rest
pars to finish the first two rounds at 1-under.
Kuchar, the Georgia Tech junior-to-be who captivated crowds with
his 21st-place finish at the Masters, served notice that he's no
fluke.
Kuchar was tied for third place with little-known Lee Porter and
Lee Janzen, whose 4-under-par 66 was the low score of the day.
Porter, of Greensboro, N.C., has spent as much time on the Asian
Tour as he has playing on the PGA Tour but managed to qualify for
his first Open this year. He capped his round with a 112-yard
pitching wedge shot for eagle on the par-4 18th, a shot he counts
among the most memorable of his life.
Maggert could understand Stewart's frustrations on a course in
which only four players have managed to break par over 72 holes in
three previous Opens held here in 1955, 1966 and 1987.
As expected, the short but topsy-turvy and tree-lined Lake
Course took its toll on a number of players who were flirting with
the leaderboard on Thursday. Darkhorse Mark Carnevale, who started
Friday's round in second place at 3-under, double-bogeyed the
394-yard par-4 second hole and then bogeyed No. 4 to slip to even
par. The second hole also claimed Joe Durant, who had been tied
with Carnevale going into Friday's round, and the 10-year
journeyman pro from Pensacola, Fla., fell to 1-over by the end of
the day.
Course conditions also claimed many of the 20-something stars
who were counted on to do well in this Open.
Leonard, picked as one of the favorites to win the tournament in
a pre-Open poll, shot 75 to go with an opening round 71 and didn't
like being upstaged by the likes of Kuchar.
Fred Couples just barely made the cut after a 5-over 75 Friday
to put him at 147 for the tournament, as did 58-year-old Jack
Nicklaus, playing in his 42nd Open. Nicklaus, who got a special
exemption just to make the original field, needed a 50-foot birdie
putt on 18 to stay alive. Tiger Woods and Leonard also flirted with
elimination at 6-over 146, and Casey Martin qualified, one stroke
ahead of them. The list of those who headed home last night
included 1997 PGA champion Davis Love III, 1996 Open champ Steve
Jones, 1995 Open champ Corey Pavin, Tom Watson, Nick Faldo and
Fuzzy Zoeller.
Even when things were going well, Stewart knew his lead could be
squandered, given the severity of the Lake Course.
KOSOVO-REBELS (Junik, Serbia) War has a choreography that only
its participants understand. Fighters, locked in an embrace, feel
out the daily beat and rhythm until the set is shattered by a surge
of anarchic violence. Such a dance is underway in Kosovo, where
armed peasant farmers, joined by hundreds of rebels that have
picked up weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania,
face down some 50,000 government soldiers and special police. By
Chris Hedges.
CENTENARIANS (Phoenix) Centenarians aren't what they used to
be. There are so many between 30,000 and 50,000, according to
demographers, up from the 1980 estimate of 15,000 that it's hard
to get a televised 100th birthday greeting from Willard Scott, who
mentions 12 every week on the Today Show. Every week about 90 new
centenarians are disappointed. Centenarians are the country's
fastest growing age group, with projections that by the middle of
the next century more than 600,000 Americans will be over 100. By
Sara Rimer.
TEXMEX-BORDER (El Paso) Four years after the North American
Free Trade Agreement lowered trade barriers, the cities along
Texas' long border with Mexico are struggling to become more than
glorified truck stops for the free trade era, as they watch their
manufacturing jobs move south by the thousands. By Sam Howe
Verhovek.
CONGRESS-SPEND (Washington) A curtain-raiser on the
appropriations process, which is finally under way in both houses,
with floor votes to start soon. These are the only bills Congress
must pass, so here's a look at what's in them, what are the likely
collisions, House vs. Senate and Congress vs. White House. By
Katharine Q. Seelye.
AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER -- A list of stories being considered by
New York Times editors for Page 1; will move at 4:30 p.m. ET.
AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT -- A description of the front page layout of
the first edition of The New York Times; will move at 7:30 p.m. ET.
This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Monday, June
22, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.
Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDT
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
EDT Monday-Friday.
If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
CLINTON-TRIP-1STLEDE When he visits China beginning next week,
virtually everything President Clinton does every step he takes,
every place he goes, every bite he eats will have been
choreographed weeks in advance by a horde of advance men and women
who will have scheduled every second of his trip. After spending
hours studying videotapes of the routes Clinton will take, Secret
Service agents will have ensured that manhole covers are sealed and
air ducts blocked to prevent potential assassins from planting
bombs. His armor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead.
Hotels will have been comandeered for the president and his
entourage. Detailed briefing books will have been prepared for him,
providing classified information on the ranking officials with whom
he will meet. Phone banks will have been put in place for the
traveling White House press. Sophisticated electronics gear will
have been installed so the media can beam images back to the United
States. In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked around
the clock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to make
sure the whole thing goes off without a hitch. (Deans, Cox News
Service).
EDS: Originally moved Saturday and is being updated Sunday with
additional information for those who did not already run it.
BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON By setting aside tobacco legislation
that would have increased costs for smokers, the Senate cleared the
way last week to consider a bill that will raise the ante for
people whose debts are driving them into bankruptcy.
Unlike the tobacco debate, which barely touched on smokers'
responsibility for their habits, the debate over tightening
bankruptcy rules is likely to focus on consumers' responsibility
for paying their bills.
HOWIE You know him as Howie Mandel, the standup comic who's
championed bullhorn-style wackiness for years. Today, meet Howard
Mandel, TV's newest daytime talk show host. (Harris, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution). 19.
GA-FLA 0622 Follow on the Georgia-Florida high school game,
including an idea officials are discussing about moving the 1999
game to December and tying it into the Peach Bowl festivities.
(Towers, Atlanta Journal-Constitution). 12.
TAX-REFORM (Topeka, Kan.) The new way that taxes are collected
in this Midwest state capital may offer taxpayers everywhere a
glimpse of what the future may be like in dealing with the Internal
Revenue Service. By David Cay Johnston.
WASHINGTON By setting aside tobacco legislation that would
have increased costs for smokers, the Senate cleared the way last
week to consider a bill that will raise the ante for people whose
debts are driving them into bankruptcy.
Unlike the tobacco debate, which barely touched on smokers'
responsibility for their habits, the debate over tightening
bankruptcy rules is likely to focus on consumers' responsibility
for paying their bills.
Gramm and other reform-minded lawmakers are reacting to
bankruptcy filings that have hit highs not seen since the collapse
of the real estate market and savings loans in the last half of
the 1980s. With no similar economic crisis to explain the current
spike in bankruptcy filings, some lawmakers are pointing their
fingers at the debtors.
Consumer advocates, in turn, are pointing fingers at banks and
retailers that are marketing credit cards at unprecedented rates.
University of Texas law professor Jay Westbrook, a bankruptcy law
specialist, prepared for a recent speech in Austin by collecting
eight days' worth of credit offers that he and his wife received in
the mail. The total hit $600,000.
Despite the professors' concern, Congress has moved at
uncharacteristic speed to change the rules governing the levels of
relief available to people with crushing debts. The House approved
its package of changes June 10 in a 306-118 vote.
The Senate is expected to take up its version of bankruptcy
reform in mid-July, after a 2 1/2 week recess for the July 4
holiday.
The main goal of both the House and Senate bills is to restrict
debtors' use of a section of the U.S. bankruptcy code known as
Chapter 7, under which individuals and married couples declare an
inability to pay debts and effectively have most of them canceled,
or discharged.
Some personal debts such as income taxes, child support,
alimony, student loans and court judgments for fraud or injury to
another person are considered priority debts and must be paid in
full under both Chapter 7 and its alternative, Chapter 13.
Under Chapter 13, individuals and couples reorganize their debts
and repay part of them under a plan approved by the bankruptcy
court. Chapter 13 is the personal version of Chapter 11, which is
used by corporations to reorganize debt.
One subject likely to interest those institutional investors is
what happens to Berkshire Hathaway after Buffett, who is 67,
retires or dies. General Re's board had similar questions in
considering the merger, Buffett said.
Ronald Ferguson, chairman and chief executive of General Re, who
will become a Berkshire director as part of the merger, said,
however, that except concerning the operations of General Re, he is
not in line to play any part in those succession plans.
Institutions might also wonder what Buffett is going to do with
the $24 billion in new investment capital that will come into the
company from General Re's operations. Only about $5 billion of that
is invested in common stocks currently, Buffett said, with the
balance in fixed income, and the biggest portion of that in
municipal bonds.
Buffett, who recently has said that he has had a hard time
finding cheap stocks to buy, admitted that he did not yet know the
answer to that.
NEW YORK Joao Gilberto may well be the coolest man alive. The
unassuming, bespectacled, 67-year-old singer walked on stage
without introduction or ceremony at Carnegie Hall on Friday, sat
down with his guitar and proceeded to play one quietly haunting
bossa nova after another for 90 minutes, putting a preternatural
hush over the sold-out audience.
He sang as if he were alone, communing with his guitar. His
fingers brushed featherweight syncopated chords; his voice, just
above a whisper, contemplated love and music, beauty and sadness.
During songs and between them, he hunched over his guitar, nearly
motionless but for his restless, knowing fingers. Every so often he
would swing one knee to his own irresistible rhythms. And once,
just once, he smiled.
Gilberto's repertory has come from Antonio Carlos Jobim, Dorival
Caymmi and other brilliant composers; he lends the songs a luminous
gentleness, at once concentrated and serene. Now, in a rare tour to
mark the 40th anniversary of that first single, Gilberto was
teasing out new secrets from his earliest songs.
Gilberto's voice is still almost weightless, but it's not as
smooth now as it was; there are scratches in it, and its lower
notes can shade into husky ambiguity.
He circled in on the songs, singing through the verses
straightforwardly and then returning to them more freely, letting
his voice float and drift away from the dependable pulse of his
guitar, as if he was still mulling over how he should feel.
Every so often, he turned to scat-singing, like a muffled
trombone. His voice and guitar achieved subtle, impish feats of
timing and harmony, though he never flaunted them. Yet he was so
understated that any modest musical variation, like a key change or
a shift in his guitar rhythm, arrived like a thunderclap.
When Bebel Gilberto, his daughter, joined him for a final
encore, she showed how radical Gilberto's reticence had been. She
made phrases crest and subside; she made eye contact with the
audience. But after her father's solo performance, she seemed to be
trying too hard, creating a diversion from his unwavering purity.
ST. LOUIS, Mo. Revisiting works of the past can be a thankless
job for a composer, because listeners tend to regard an earlier
composer's thought process as sacrosanct and a later composer's
additions as intrusive.
But Mahler's Bach orchestrations raise eyebrows, and earnest
completions of scores by Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert and Mahler
have generated reams of critical debate (or, in some cases, yawns
of indifference).
Instead, Goehr retained the lament and built his own structure
around it. Strands of Monteverdian harmonic, melodic and ornamental
style, as well as references to his instrumental coloration, are
woven through a contemporary fabric of quirky rhythms, eerie and
exotic percussion textures, brash, expressive dissonance and vocal
lines that combine declamation and gorgeously arching melody.
In Rinuccini's libretto, a weak-willed Teseo vows to make
Arianna his queen, then abandons her on Naxos. She is disconsolate,
but Venus and Cupid have conspired to send Bacchus to Naxos, where
he falls in love with Arianna and marries her. In Ocel's staging,
this finale is too much for Arianna, whose lament for Teseo was
presented only moments earlier as a wrenching mad scene. She walks
through her courtship and wedding with glazed eyes and a skeptical
look. Goehr set the text in Italian; it is being presented here in
a deftly poetic English translation by Margaret B. Stearns.
Ocel, abetted by Leslie M. Taylor's spare set and Robin
VerHage-Abrams' polyglot costuming, parodies this tale of gods and
mortals in a brilliant parade of modern stereotypes.
Among the gods, a punkish Cupid wears red leather, reads a
supermarket tabloid and carries a switchblade instead of a bow and
arrow. Venus is a tipsy, aging bleached-blond courtesan and Jove is
a doddering antique. Bacchus, looking like a paunchy Kurt Cobain,
has a retinue of Blues Brothers imitators.
Among the mortals, Teseo and his soldiers wear American Army
uniforms, and Teseo's Councilor, who persuades him to leave
Arianna, is a slick lawyer with tortoise-shell glasses and a
leather briefcase. Arianna is dressed in a bridal gown; her
confidante, Dorilla, is a frumpy 1950s housewife. Except for their
odd masks, the fishermen who convey a lot of the information in
Rinuccini's talky libretto are presented straightforwardly.
Executing Ocel's notions and Goehr's music while keeping the
ghosts of Monteverdi and Rinuccini in listeners' minds is a lot to
ask, but the singers were clearly game.
Phyllis Pancella's Arianna hit the emotional extremes perfectly:
her powerful, beautifully sung account of the lament was the
production's most gripping moment, and her sudden acceptance of her
improved situation in the work's final seconds gave the piece a
surprising, comic twist. Marcel Reijans, once he got a wayward
vibrato under control, gave a solid account of Teseo's conflicted
music. James Wood was the suitably shadowy Councilor, and Mark
Crayton, a fine countertenor, was an amusingly dissolute Bacchus.
There were also strong contributions by Dorothy Byrne, as Venus and
Dorilla, Janice Creswell, as Cupid, and Kevin Short, Jeffrey Picon
and Thomas Trotter in smaller roles.
A small instrumental ensemble drawn from the St. Louis Symphony
and conducted by Grant Llewellyn, moved between Monteverdi's style
and Goehr's music with admirable agility. The production runs
through Thursday.
ATLANTA In the beginning, back in 1937, there was Snow White,
with her squeaky-clean image and her squeaky-clean dream that
someday her prince would come. Never mind that she spends most of
the movie co-habitating with seven vertically challenged men.
Beauties all. Not necessarily brainless beauties, either. But
what did any of them really want out of life besides the right to
live happily ever after with the right guy?
Her personality: Yearning to explore the airy other world above
the ocean, even if she risks her life.
Moral of the story: Someday you'll find your prince, but only if
you go for a makeover, like losing your tail and gills.
Snow White, eat my dust: Doesn't sweep floors, disobeys dad and
she finds and saves her prince, not the other way around.
Her look: Proper French bourgeois who actually takes time
twisting her hair into a 'do, unlike these hang-loose other
heroines.
Her personality: Yearning to be left alone by handsome, mean
Gaston, so she can read her books in peace; smart but kind.
Moral of the story: Sometimes a big tough guy really needs love,
because at heart he's just Robby Benson talking in a deep voice.
Snow White, eat my dust: A dark forest wouldn't freak her out
the way it does Miss White; plus, she falls in love with the Beast
because of his soul, not his looks or lineage.
Moral of the story: Honor your heritage but welcome other
cultural traditions. And never trust a blond, 'cause he'll only
break your heart.
Snow White, eat my dust: She's more interested in what's right
for her people and her land than in landing a boyfriend; in a
Disney first, she doesn't get the guy.
Her look: Tomboyish as a bride in training, but brawny as a
soldier (thanks to padded armor and a haircut).
Her personality: Yearning to save her family's honor and her
father's life by proving herself a worthy fighter.
Moral of the story: Sometimes you have to break rules to do what
you know is right.
Snow White, eat my dust: Can you see Snow in armor, shooting a
cannon and kicking Hun butt? No, I don't think so.
 First gig: During a 1979 Los Angeles vacation, took a dare to
go on stage at Comedy Store. Got noticed by a Hollywood agent.
Then the rubber glove question comes up and there's a pause a
long, uncomfortable silence that feels like all the oxygen is being
sucked out of the room Mandel's in even though he's 2,000 miles
away.
Back when Mandel was known as a geek-a-zoid stand-up comic, he'd
put a rubber glove on his head, blow real hard and inflate it like
a balloon. Big laughs then. Not so funny now.
But the talk show circuit has become a graveyard of good
intentions (remember Carnie Wilson? Tempestt Bledsoe? Danny
Bonaduce?), and only a handful of hosts have done it very well or
very long.
Mandel has a built-in following from his days as stand-up comic
and actor, but the big question remains: Can a former rubber
glovehead ever be taken seriously as a daytime talk show host?
MONTREAL Despite their denials, surely they want to be a part
of it: New York, New York, then Atlanta, Atlanta. How else to
explain how listless the Braves were for most of the weekend?
Surely, they overlooked the Expos in anticipation of tonight's
Yankee biggie in the Bronx.
On Friday, facing a reclamation project named Shawn Boskie,
Atlanta was humbled 14-1, its worst loss in four years. On Sunday,
after the encouraging Saturday night return of John Smoltz, the
Braves stumbled against another right-hander with no prior success
against Atlanta. Dustin Hermanson allowed just five hits in eight
innings and, save for Michael Tucker's solo homer, frustrated
Atlanta in Montreal's 4-1 victory.
That denied the Braves a 15th straight series win over Montreal,
which hadn't taken a series from Atlanta since 1994. It also gave
Expos manager Felipe Alou his 500th career victory, who savored it
even more coming against Bobby Cox.
Neagle's now lost as many games as he did all last season when,
at 20-5, he was the NL's lone 20-game winner. The sixth-inning,
leadoff homer by Shane Andrews was the 16th surrendered by Neagle
(seventh in his last four starts), just two fewer than he allowed
last year.
But the third inning was decisive, when the Expos batted around
and scored three times. This after Neagle had retired the first
nine batters in order.
What with baby-boomers of the female persuasion wringing their
hands, furrowing their brows and working themselves up into
frenzies over the passing years and the ebb of hormones, thank
goodness Cybill Shepherd is offering advice.
- Personals walks the plank: Dennis Conner has nothing to do
with America True, the America's Cup vessel being built at Pier 17; Dawn Riley is captain and CEO. The fund-raiser is private, by
invitation only.
What with baby-boomers of the female persuasion wringing their
hands, furrowing their brows and working themselves up into
frenzies over the passing years and the ebb of hormones, thank
goodness Cybill Shepherd is offering advice.
- Personals walks the plank: Dennis Conner has nothing to do
with America True, the America's Cup vessel being built at Pier 17; Dawn Riley is captain and CEO. The fund-raiser is private, by
invitation only.
WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast of
hundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await President
Clinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road city
of Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.
The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,
however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling since
last winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detail
of a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 years
of Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation's
future.
For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tour
lie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, event
consultations and back-room skull sessions. It's all the work of a
temporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, security
agents, communications experts, transportation specialists,
physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent months
to plan the presidential trip to China.
There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to be
worked out, starting with the basic question of just how should the
Leader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away from
the office?
Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the office
along in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magic
carpet. It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300
an hour not including the crew of 26 can move the essential
functions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to
virtually anywhere else on the planet.
In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow Air
Force One on the trip as a standby.
In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have his
own physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room's
worth of medical gear and supplies. And as a precaution, bottled
water is being flown for the president and First Lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton to drink and bathe.
The president will take along his own car, too an armored
black limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet.
Nine other armored limos will also be flown ahead to transport
various high-ranking officials accompanying the president.
Also flying ahead will be a pair of sport utility vehicles used
by the U.S. Secret Service agents who protect the president.
He will also take his own private telephone company banks of
switching and transmission gear must be transported and set up days
ahead of time for each stop he'll make so that the president can
talk with international leaders or key U.S. officials anywhere
around the world without worrying that someone else might be
listening. All told, it's estimated the White House will be taking
60 tons of communications gear.
Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president will
also take along enough personnel to staff a good-sized
corporation.The president will have his personal valet, for
instance, and Mrs. Clinton will bring her personal hairdresser.
Scores of other administration officials with expertise in
everything from trade and environmental matters to arms control and
international law will also be along on the trip, many of them
traveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.
It isn't yet clear precisely how large the presidential
entourage to China will be, but some 800 people went along with
Clinton to Africa last spring, in addition to 200 journalists and
media technicians.
The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller though
the press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa largely because many of the American corporations that sent
executives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.
The cost for members of the media accompanying the president is
expected to be about $15,000.
Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agents
sometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-be
assailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensive
security effort.
When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of Cape
Town in South Africa last March, for instance, local security
agents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,
canvassed the city and welded shut manhole covers along possible
routes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenue
of attack and also sending out the message that a tight security
net had been cast across the seaside city.
Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theater, scripted,
directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identified
by the White House.
Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try to
redefine American impressions and to show that his policy of
engaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,
is helping to foster change.
With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to do
in China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristic
of hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast country
that are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-run
economy.
Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, in
concert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,
China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from the
depths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.
Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unity
and achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vast
potential for the future.
Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,
built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.
Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit the terra-cotta
warriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stock
exchange in Shanghai there are dozens more his advance team
considered, surveyed and later rejected.
Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control a
nine-day tour through the world's most populous country. The best
laid plans, indeed, can go awry.
When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop in
Ghana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a million
people turned out to listen to him speak. At one point, the crowd
surged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence. Film
footage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move back
dominated television coverage of the day's events, to the
consternation of White House spin doctors.
It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who have
insisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in front
of the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.
Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's Liberation
Army beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutally
crushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House message
shop might dream up. The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.
Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advance
team.
WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast of
hundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await President
Clinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road city
of Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.
The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,
however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling since
last winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detail
of a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 years
of Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation's
future.
For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tour
lie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, event
consultations and back-room skull sessions. It's all the work of a
temporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, security
agents, communications experts, transportation specialists,
physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent months
to plan the presidential trip to China.
There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to be
worked out, starting with the basic question of just how should the
Leader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away from
the office?
Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the office
along in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magic
carpet. It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300
an hour not including the crew of 26 can move the essential
functions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to
virtually anywhere else on the planet.
In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow Air
Force One on the trip as a standby.
In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have his
own physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room's
worth of medical gear and supplies. And as a precaution, bottled
water is being flown for the president and First Lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton to drink and bathe.
The president will take along his own car, too an armored
black limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet.
Nine other armored limos will also be flown ahead to transport
various high-ranking officials accompanying the president.
Also flying ahead will be a pair of sport utility vehicles used
by the U.S. Secret Service agents who protect the president.
He will also take his own private telephone company banks of
switching and transmission gear must be transported and set up days
ahead of time for each stop he'll make so that the president can
talk with international leaders or key U.S. officials anywhere
around the world without worrying that someone else might be
listening. All told, it's estimated the White House will be taking
60 tons of communications gear.
Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president will
also take along enough personnel to staff a good-sized
corporation.The president will have his personal valet, for
instance, and Mrs. Clinton will bring her personal hairdresser.
Scores of other administration officials with expertise in
everything from trade and environmental matters to arms control and
international law will also be along on the trip, many of them
traveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.
It isn't yet clear precisely how large the presidential
entourage to China will be, but some 800 people went along with
Clinton to Africa last spring, in addition to 200 journalists and
media technicians.
The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller though
the press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa largely because many of the American corporations that sent
executives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.
The cost for members of the media accompanying the president is
expected to be about $15,000.
Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agents
sometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-be
assailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensive
security effort.
When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of Cape
Town in South Africa last March, for instance, local security
agents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,
canvassed the city and welded shut manhole covers along possible
routes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenue
of attack and also sending out the message that a tight security
net had been cast across the seaside city.
Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theater, scripted,
directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identified
by the White House.
Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try to
redefine American impressions and to show that his policy of
engaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,
is helping to foster change.
With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to do
in China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristic
of hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast country
that are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-run
economy.
Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, in
concert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,
China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from the
depths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.
Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unity
and achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vast
potential for the future.
Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,
built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.
Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit the terra-cotta
warriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stock
exchange in Shanghai there are dozens more his advance team
considered, surveyed and later rejected.
Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control a
nine-day tour through the world's most populous country. The best
laid plans, indeed, can go awry.
When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop in
Ghana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a million
people turned out to listen to him speak. At one point, the crowd
surged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence. Film
footage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move back
dominated television coverage of the day's events, to the
consternation of White House spin doctors.
It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who have
insisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in front
of the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.
Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's Liberation
Army beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutally
crushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House message
shop might dream up. The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.
Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advance
team.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at a news conference
after the unanimous decision that the plan had no political
ramifications and was not a violation of the Israeli-Palestinian
peace accords, under which the final status of Jerusalem is to be
negotiated with the Palestinians.
Albright also held a conference call with American Jewish
leaders to voice displeasure with the scheme, and then talked to
Netanyahu by telephone Saturday.
The loudest initial protest Sunday came not from Palestinians or
the United States, but from residents of the Israeli towns to be
annexed, especially Mevasseret Zion. Some of the residents of these
towns are people who moved out of Jerusalem to escape the spread of
its rigorously Orthodox neighborhoods, and who are dead-set against
coming under Jerusalem's control. They tried to block the
Jerusalem-Tel Aviv highway Sunday, eading to scuffles with police
in which eight people were arrested.
The United States has been negotiating with Israel for many
months now on a further Israeli withdrawal in the West Bank that
would enable the long-stalled negotiations with Palestinians to
enter into a final phase. The future of Jerusalem is one of the
central issues to be resolved.
The arrangement would enable Jerusalem to expand and strengthen
the settlements and to fortify their ties with Jerusalem, with new
roads and tunnels.
In the west, the plan recommended that areas from Betar to Tsur
Hadassah to the southwest, and to Shoresh and Kiryat Yearim in the
Jerusalem corridor, be annexed outright. These areas would swell
Jerusalem's area by half, from 48 square miles to 72 square miles,
and would make room for 140,000 housing units with 1 million
residents.
The plan also called for the construction of various roads,
including a beltway in East Jerusalem, and for the investment of
money into the creation of high-tech industry.
One major government concern addressed by the expansion plan was
the fact that Jerusalem has been losing secular and prosperous
middle-class residents in recent years because of the rapid growth
of the relatively poor strictly Orthodox population in the city.
Another government concern is that the Palestinian population in
Jerusalem has been growing at a greater rate than the Jewish
population. A 1995 census put the city's total population at
591,400, with 417,000 Jews and 174,400 Arabs.
At a press conference Sunday, Netanyahu and the mayor of
Jerusalem, Ehud Olmert, were relatively cautious in spelling out
the goals of the project.
In the same tone, Netanyahu vowed that construction would soon
begin on Har Homa, the site of a proposed Jewish neighborhood in
southeastern Jerusalem whose announcement 16 months ago was
fiercely condemned by the Palestinians.
Super Bowl MVP John Elway skipped a trip to the White House last
week for a knee checkup (the MRI came up clean) and a tee time at
Inverness Golf Club in Denver.
Cheerio, MJ: Kellogg had planned to issue a Corn Flakes box
featuring the NBA champion Chicago Bulls on the front, but the NBA
said the company couldn't because Michael Jordan is a spokesman for
General Mills, which makes Wheaties.
The NBA and Battle Creek, Mich.-based Kellogg said earlier this
month they had an agreement for Kellogg to be the NBA's
breakfast-food sponsor. They planned to issue a commemorative
cereal box with the championship winner.
While inflation over all is at its lowest rate since the 1960s,
prices have been rising rather noticeably in recent months for a
variety of everyday items from fast-food hamburgers to auto
maintenance and dental care.
Consider the experience of John Gachelin, a 28-year-old
marketing executive, who moved with his wife to Dallas from
Chicago, in part to lower their living costs. Unlike Illinois,
Texas has no state income tax. And houses cost less. But in the
seven months since the move, the Gachelins have been hit with steep
price increases to rent videos, change the oil in their two cars,
buy cigarettes (he smokes), use a pay phone and buy hardcover
books.
What softens the blow for the Gachelins and many others are the
prices that are not rising. Most of the essentials food,
gasoline, cars, furniture, appliances, everyday apparel are
holding steady in price or becoming cheaper. That is why the
Consumer Price Index, which is an average of the prices of
thousands of goods and services, has risen by only 1.7 percent over
the last year.
It is the extras in life along with a few striking essentials,
like home prices and rents that are becoming noticeably more
expensive, and that rise is raising eyebrows. The University of
Michigan's weekly consumer surveys may be registering the smallest
percentage of Americans in 30 years worried about inflation, but
they are also registering a growing annoyance.
Just how can the overall inflation rate remain so low while so
many individual prices seem to be rising smartly? The answer lies
in the way the Consumer Price Index is calculated. The government
checks 80,000 different prices each month, many of them for
manufactured goods and commodities toys and cars, for example,
and gasoline and food. These prices figure heavily in the averaging
process that produces the Consumer Price Index. But over the last
year, the prices of manufactured goods and commodities have
remained steady, in part because of the pressure of global
competition, and that has held down the overall index.
The price increases these days are centered in the service
sector, where prices are rising rather smartly for a growing number
of items. These increases, however, are not widespread enough to
pull up the overall index beyond its current low level.
The expanding list of rising prices is partly a reflection of
the robust economy. As incomes rise and unemployment falls, people
become more ambitious in their purchases and more tolerant of price
increases, even while complaining. So they go along with a New York
merchant, for example, who has raised the price of his custom-made
suits by $100, to between $750 and $1,095.
Merchants in general have become bolder in pushing up prices.
That is particularly the case if what they sell is much in demand
these days and short in supply, like custom-made men's suits or
rental apartments. Or they are services available from no one else Walt Disney's theme parks, for example, and the state-run ferry
system that carries 25 million riders a year between Seattle and
the numerous island communities in Puget Sound.
Disney's admission price to its theme parks in Orlando, Fla.,
rose nearly 5 percent in April, to $42, and the state-run ferry
system's tickets went up 7 percent, on average, in May. The new
fares range up to $30 on the longest route. The state ferry
commission said the increases were required to finance expansion of
the fleet; the service is heavily used by tourists and commuters.
The commuters expressed resignation. Many said, in a questionnaire,
that they had no reasonable alternative to the ferry.
Prices in the last year have gone up significantly more than the
inflation rate in more than 30 categories. This is evident in the
data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and in more than
two dozen interviews with company executives and representatives of
trade and consumer organizations.
The list includes price increases already much in the news: fees
for using automated-teller machines, for example, car rentals,
airline fares for last-minute travelers, hotel rates, monthly
apartment rentals and housing prices, although the cost of running
a house has gone down for those who have refinanced mortgages.
Other increases run the gamut of services: legal fees, dental
care, HMO insurance premiums, parking-lot rates, some fast-food
restaurant prices, long-distance phone calls made within a state,
accountants' fees, school tuition at all levels and charges for
vehicle maintenance.
Entertainment is also more expensive cable television rates
are up, as are tickets to most theme parks and sports events,
entrance fees for some national parks and even wine. The price of a
funeral also keeps going up.
Rising costs are sometimes cited as justification for the price
increases. The Boston Red Sox, in announcing a ticket price
increase at Fenway Park, argued that the money would go in part to
pay the salaries of expensive baseball players. Procter Gamble
invoked higher paper costs as the reason for a 6 percent increase
in the prices of bath and facial tissues in January. And Burger
King blamed the rising minimum wage, which has pushed up the
earnings of many of its employees, as a reason for cutting back
sharply on the discounting of its Whopper hamburger.
Still, there is the problem of getting customers in the door.
Americans have grown accustomed to discounts and bargains, and
Burger King still offers 99-cent specials. But now it generally
features less costly food than the Whopper a small milkshake, for
example, or onion rings or fries. The hope is that once in the
door, customers will spring for the Whopper.
That same sort of ceiling seemed to govern an increase in pay
phone rates in many states. Deregulation permitted the increase,
but an attempt by local phone companies, which own many of the pay
phones, to impose a 50-cent minimum in some Midwestern states
resulted in a sharp decline in use. The customer resistance
disappeared at a 35-cent minimum, and that became the norm in many
states starting last October, although not in New York, which still
charges 25 cents.
WASHINGTON Hunkered down over pepperoni pizza and diet cola, a
House task force on healthcare labored recently over one of the
most contentious election year issues: whether to impose federal
regulation on the nation's managed care companies.
And the driving force making managed care into a front burner
issue, sat, some might even say as the unwanted dinner guest, at
the mahogany table in the back room of House Majority Whip Dennis
Hastert's Capitol office.
Norwood rode to Congress in 1994 in large part on the coattails
of the conservative agenda espoused by fellow Georgian, House
Speaker Newt Gingrich, as well as support from the business
community. But over the last six months, Norwood has raised the ire
of both his conservative brethren and major business groups in his
quest to overhaul the way managed care is administered.
Over the last year, Norwood has been drumming up support for his
bill, commonly called the Patient Access to Responsible Care Act
(PARCA).
Simply put, the bill would regulate the managed care industry,
which provides health care to more than 160 million Americans by
creating several consumer protections. For example, the bill would
give patients a way to appeal decisions made by their plans and
most importantly, it would allow patients to sue their health plans
for damages.
So for the last four months, the task force has been working
with Norwood at breakfast meetings and lunches to draft a bill that
seeks seeks to improve patient rights with managed care companies
without angering the business community.
Business groups are lobbying heavily against Norwood's bill and
there is a general sense that their efforts have paid off and that
the bill that will emerge from the task force will be far different
from what Norwood advocated.
Norwood is referring to what would happen to the bill if he took
it to the House floor and won. The bill would have to pass the
Senate. If it passed the Senate, the next step would be for it to
go to a committee conference , where he predicted that the
Republican leaders would massage it and change it to their liking.
And all of that is subject to the co-sponsors keeping their
names on the list of co-sponsors. With the Republican leaders
standing in firm opposition to the bill, several Republicans said
they would hesitate to continue their support of the measure.
Still, Norwood is confident that he will prevail on important
parts of his bill. And he has support from groups representing
patients and healthcare providers, which have long argued that
Congress should intervene to iron out managed care problems.
Republicans on the task force said that bill that emerges would
most likely include the following:
 Gag Rule: a provision in the bill giving doctors in managed
care plans the authority to outline all of the options available to
patients, despite the cost.
 Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), which has
been the most controversial element in the debate over whether to
impose federal regulations on managed care companies. Norwood
argues that the ERISA law unfairly offers employers liability
protection from the consequences of the healthcare decisions they
make that cause death or injury. Under ERISA, employees can sue
their health insurer if they believe that they have made a wrong
decision, but they are barred from obtaining punitive and
compensatory damages.
About 125 million workers, dependents and retirees are covered
by plans subject to ERISA, according to the Labor Department.
Norwood argues that removing the bar on punitive and compensatory
damages in ERISA would force health plans to be accountable for the
decisions they make, thus improving the overall quality of
healthcare.
PHOENIX Lynn Adler, an advocate for the aging who enjoys the
company of people who have made it to their 100th birthdays, gave a
party recently for her centenarian friends. Nine of them showed up.
Obviously, only a small number of people will live to be 100 one in 10,000 Americans and among those who do reach the century
mark, the rate of disability is high. The nine centenarians at Lynn
Adler's party, the ones who get on television and are held up as
role models, are the exceptions.
But centenarians are proportionately the United States'
fastest-growing age group, with projections that by the middle of
the next century, more than 800,000 Americans will be over 100. And
so many are making it to 100 in relatively good health, as life
expectancies in general shoot up, that centenarians, once
sentimentalized rarities, have become a symbol of the country's age
boom and a metaphor for the dramatic shift in attitude about what
old means.
Living to be 100 is no longer viewed as a quirk of nature, but
as a distinct possibility, something to be worked for. It is the
goal of the exercise and spirituality class for the aging that
Blondola Lucas, 76, a retired educator, leads at the White Rock
Baptist Church in Durham, N.C. One member of the class, James
Schooler, who can do 25 push-ups at a clip, has seven years to go.
Still, attitudes toward the very old are a mixture of admiration
and dread. About 30 percent of centenarians have full command of
their faculties and are living in the community, said Leonard Poon,
director of the University of Georgia gerontology center, and the
director of a 10-year study of centenarians.
But Poon, whose research confirmed findings of earlier studies
in Germany, said that about 45 percent of centenarians had some
sort of disability, varying in severity.
And disability can set in well before 100. According to the
census, 47 percent of those 95 and older are in nursing homes.
(Among those 85 and older, 22 percent are in nursing homes, while
the number drops to 7 percent for those 75 to 84, and 1 percent for
people ages 65 to 74.) The average centenarian lives to be 102.
The country's mixed perceptions of aging and longevity are
reflected by a 1996 poll for the Alliance for Aging Research.
According to the poll, 61 percent of Americans say they would like
to live to be 100, and while few expect to achieve that goal, 51
percent think they will live to be at least 80.
At the same time, a majority of Americans are anxious about
aging, with 64 percent saying they are worried about living for
years in a nursing home because of a physical frailty or long-term
illness, and 56 percent worried about developing Alzheimer's
disease.
When people talk about wanting to live to be 100, they surely do
not have in mind being severely disabled patients in a nursing
home. The paradox, says John Rowe, president of the Mount Sinai
Hospital and School of Medicine in New York City, is that people
want to live longer, but they do not want to get older or disabled.
While the research is still in its early stages, Rowe and other
experts say the evidence is that life is being prolonged, that
there is a modest compression of the amount of time people spend in
poor health during their final years.
For the next two weeks at Ye Olde All-England Lawn Tennis
Championships in Londontown, there will be ye young tennis starlet
Anna Kournikova as the target of sneers and jeers, yet revered by
the media.
Maybe that kinda kids' stuff plays in Siberia. Maybe in England,
it plays in the tabloids. But over here, where even a simple
traffic signal knows when it's right to stop and go, we tend to get
a little uptight about these March-July relationships.
Before jetting off to the site of some of her greatest
professional triumphs, Martina Navratilova was queried about
Kournikova's sex-appeal marketing technique and how she flaunts
herself around hockeystud Sergei Fedorov .
 The oldest competitor at the X-Games in San Diego is
45-year-old street luger Steve Fernando of Van Nuys. Which seems
kinda like allowing a teen-ager with shoes into the plastic ballpit
at Chuck E. Cheese. . . .
 Adidas is the top official shoe supplier to the 32-team World
Cup soccer tournament, footing the bill for seven countries. Nike
is second with six (including the U.S.). Could have been seven, but
Indonesia didn't make the field. . . .
 The Almighty Ducks proved again they're one mucked-up
!ital!or-gan-EYE-za-shun in how it clumsily handled the ouster of
Pierre Page the same guy who took them months and months just to
hire last offseason. Once again, Gordon Bombay waits in the Ducks'
wings to take the job that's rightly his. . . .
 This week's L.A. Business Journal decided Rupert Murdoch was
the wealthiest man in the city with a personal fortune of $4.9
billion. That would make Murdoch employee
Raul Mondesi the most fortunate man in the city with a wealth of
lawyers at his disposal. . . .
One of the subjects of Perls' study is Catherine McCaig, 102,
who lives in her own home in Marshfield, Mass. Although she uses a
walker and requires the help of aides for bathing and dressing,
Mrs. McCaig still plays the piano, cooks the gourmet dishes she
watches Julia Child preparing on television and enjoys visiting
with her 93-year-old sister, Winifred Whynot, who lives across the
street.
Twenty-five years ago, 65 was viewed as the onset of old age.
Now the marker has been advanced considerably, with 85 the official
demarcation for what gerontologists refer to as the oldest-old, and
those 75 to 84 classified as the young-old.
Life expectancy at birth in the United States has increased
nearly 30 years since the turn of the century, from 47 to about 76 six years beyond the biblical life span of three score and 10. At
the same time, disability rates among older people have been
falling since the early 1980s.
As she noted in her book, Ms. Heilbrun has changed her mind. At
72, in good health and still working away, she recently completed
four detective stories in four months under her literary pseudonym,
Amanda Cross.
At 102, meanwhile, Milton Garland puts in a 20-hour week as an
engineer at a refrigeration plant in Waynesboro, Pa. In March,
Garland was honored at the White House as the country's oldest
worker.
One of the difficulties in studying centenarians, besides
recruiting subjects, is proving their age. In Georgia, for example,
where Poon recently completed his study, official birth records did
not start to be compiled until the 1920s. Names and birth dates
were passed on in family Bibles, from generation to generation,
Poon said. In addition, he said, some people exaggerate their age
out of pride, or a wish for prestige.
He and other experts say that there are no records to
substantiate the claims of 115-year-olds in Soviet Georgia, and
that there is evidence to suggest that such people are using birth
certificates of relatives a generation or two older.
The oldest person for whom there is extensive documentation was
Jeanne Calment of Arles, France, who died in August 1997 at age
122. Miss Calment rode a bicycle until she was 115, and lived in
her own apartment until age 110, when she moved into a nursing
home.
And, not surprising, according to the studies and anecdotal
reports, one thing centenarians do not do much of is worrying.
Mrs. McEathron, who grew up on a farm and reared two children
alone during the Depression after her first husband left her, said
her later years had been the best ones. It was not until her eighth
decade that she was able to stop working, as a restaurant hostess
and hotel cashier.
Doubts raised about the accuracy of a recent article that was
published in Time magazine but was written by Cable News Network
journalists are serious enough that Time's editors have ordered a
further investigation.
The article asserted that the U.S. military dropped lethal nerve
gas on a Laotian village in 1970, during the Vietnam war, as part
of a secret mission to kill American defectors.
The issue of Time that appears Monday carries a letter to
readers from the managing editor, Walter Isaacson, telling them
that the magazine is now doing its own reporting on the matter and
will correct any mistakes or clarify any disputes in future issues.
Within hours of the June 7 broadcast, CNN's report was
criticized as false, the producers were accused of ignoring or
suppressing evidence that undercut their poison-gas thesis, and
Time's rival, Newsweek, had begun work on an article that, when
published the next week, would be an attempt to rebut much of the
report.
Ten days after the broadcast, CNN's own military analyst, a
retired major general with a Ph.D. in international relations from
Columbia University, resigned in protest, calling the report false
and noting he was not consulted during its preparation.
CNN's own producers created some of the suspicion, by choosing
not to reveal a noteworthy fact about one of their most important
sources.
The accusation that sarin, a nerve gas banned by international
law, was used during Operation Tailwind, code-named for the secret
forays in Laos, is made most vigorously in the CNN report by two
soldiers who were there for one operation in 1970, Michael Hagen
and Robert Van Buskirk. But Van Buskirk told April Oliver, CNN's
main producer on this report, that he had repressed all memory of
that day's events for 24 years, from 1974, when he had a religious
awakening, until Ms. Oliver began questioning him.
Yet Ms. Oliver, who began work on the report last September, and
Jack Smith, a veteran CNN producer who joined her on the project in
February, decided to exclude mention of Van Buskirk's
recovered-memory revelation from their report. Nor did it appear in
the Time magazine article, co-authored by Ms. Oliver and Peter
Arnett, the CNN correspondent on the televised report.
John Stacks, an executive editor at Time who works on the
Newsstand collaboration, said he had known about Van Buskirk's
repressed memories of the foray, which included an incident in the
Laotian village where Van Buskirk said he chased a blond American
defector and presumably killed him by throwing a grenade into a
hole into which the man had fled.
Stacks said he had read CNN's background briefing book, which
contained transcripts of interviews, memos about off-camera
interviews, and scientific research about nerve gas, and was
confident of the report's accuracy. He also noted that Van Buskirk
was not CNN's only source.
Two other soldiers from Operation Tailwind who appeared in the
CNN report, Jim Cathy and Jay Graves, said they believed nerve gas
had been dropped. The retired admiral who was then chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Thomas Moorer, now 86 years old, also
appears on camera but his comments are ambiguous; Arnett's
narration says that Moorer admitted off-camera that nerve gas had
been used.
Haworth also said that Tom Johnson, president of CNN, and
Richard Kaplan, president of CNN/U.S., were unavailable for
comment.
Three military experts told The New York Times that the use of
nerve gas in the Laotian foray described in the CNN report would
have been impossible: Thomas Stump, a former Air Force pilot who
flew two rescue missions for the unit that included Van Buskirk and
Hagen; Richard Shultz, a professor at the Fletcher School of Law
and Diplomacy at Tufts University who has spent the last three
years writing a history of the secret operations in Southeast Asia
during the war, and Maj. Gen. Smith.
They said that extremely potent forms of tear gas can cause the
symptoms described by the Tailwind veterans in CNN's report vomiting, loss of bowel control, falling to the ground and that
such gases were often used in rescue missions such as the one Stump
flew the day Hagen, Van Buskirk, Cathy, Graves and McCarley were
rescued in Laos.
Had the gas used been nerve gas, they said, helicopter pilots
and bomber pilots would have been warned and equipped with gas
masks, which did not happen.
Georgia won the 14th annual meeting 23-21 Saturday night on
Chance Gwaltney's 33-yard field goal with no time remaining. The
victory shaved Florida's advantage in the series to 6-5-3.
That has given cause for game organizers to consider alternative
formats for the game. The most recent option being discussed is to
conduct the game in conjunction with the Peach Bowl in late
December.
Stevens said that option is on the agenda for discussion in a
meeting with Peach Bowl organizers in the next week to 10 days.
There are numerous complications, however. Foremost is a Georgia
High School Association rule that makes players ineligible to play
any other high school sports if they participate in an all-star
game during the academic school year. Florida has a similar rule
but it only jeopardizes eligibility in the same sport.
Injuries remain a serious concern of both college coaches and
the game's organizers. The University of Florida had a particularly
bad week this year as two of its signees suffered major injuries.
John Capel of Brooksville, Fla., generally considered the top
receiver prospect in the country, dislocated an elbow in practice
and had to have surgery to repair nerve damage. Albany's (Ga.)
Chucky Marks suffered a knee injury in Saturday night's game. As a
result, both players may have to sit out their freshman seasons
with the Gators.
NEW YORK After almost eight decades of charges and
countercharges, investigations, debates, protests and tears, the
question of whether Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti (or one of
them) committed the crimes for which they were executed in August
1927 remains in dispute. Historical consensus seems to have been
reached, however, that their trial was marred by the biases of the
period and by dubious prosecutorial tactics.
Attention is rightly drawn to the nation's post-World War I Red
scare, when radicals like Sacco and Vanzetti, Italian anarchists,
were rounded up, beaten and deported. The evidence against the two,
arrested in a payroll robbery and murders in 1920 in Braintree,
Mass., was contradictory; the prosecution played heavily on their
radical beliefs, and the judge reminded the jury of its duty to God
and country.
In 1977 Michael Dukakis, then the governor of Massachusetts,
issued a proclamation apologizing for the conduct of the trial
without taking a position on the men's guilt or innocence. That
combination of agnosticism toward the crime and indignation toward
the process reflects current historical opinion pretty well.
In a bid to make computer networks as common in homes as they
are in offices, 11 high technology companies including IBM, Lucent
and Compaq have teamed up to develop standards for systems that
transmit data at high speeds over the copper telephone wiring
inside almost every house and apartment.
The companies intend to announce the formation of the group,
called the Home Phoneline Networking Alliance, Monday at the
Digital Living Room conference in Laguna Hills, Calif.
Prodded by the computer industry, the telephone and cable
television industries have been rushing to develop new ways to link
homes to cyberspace at speeds that far exceed those possible using
today's common modems.
The nation's large local phone carriers have joined with Compaq
Computer Corp., Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp. in a group called
the Universal ADSL Consortium in an attempt to deliver torrents of
data over phone wires. Many of the nation's largest cable
television companies have formed a venture called At Home to do the
same thing using cable systems.
But those initiatives have done little to address how computers
and other advanced electronic devices communicate within homes. The
consortium being announced Monday plans to use telephone wiring to
create fast in-home networks.
The group plans to publish its first technical standards in the
third quarter and expects its members to ship products based on the
technology by the end of the year.
Compaq, for instance, could include plug-in cards in its
computers that allow users to make an in-home network simply by
plugging computers into standard telephone jacks.
The consortium expects its efforts to enable data-transmission
rates of up to one megabit a second. That is more than 20 times the
speeds generally made possible by today's telephone modems but is
much slower than the speeds used in modern office networks.
Carpenter said the technology would allow people to use their
telephones in the standard fashion even as the same wires carry
Internet data between machines.
Tony Grewe, an applications strategy manager for Lucent
Technology Inc.'s microelectronics unit, said the group at Lucent
that was working with the new group was separate from the task
force working with the ADSL consortium, but that the two groups
consult regularly.
Besides games, most people would seem to have little use for a
quick in-home network if the home itself had no high-speed link to
the outside world.
The core technology for the group's efforts is being provided by
two small private companies, Tut Systems Inc., based in Pleasant
Hill, Calif., and Epigram Inc., based in Sunnyvale, Calif. The
other members of the group are 3Com Corp., Advanced Micro Devices
Inc., ATT Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., Intel and Rockwell
International.
ATT is not in the local phone business in a major way, but its
wireless unit is leading the company's involvement with the home
networking consortium. ATT has explored the use of wireless
technology to offer routine local phone service. So far, those
efforts have borne little fruit in the market.
On the road in front of the barn, they had dumped two spiked
metal tracks from an old haying machine on the cobblestones to
block traffic. Another group of men, most in motley camouflage
uniforms, darted behind a barricade a few yards away. They peered
out from behind the pile of old planks, tires, bricks and sacks
filled with dirt.
Many have been lulled into believing that the curtain will never
close on this heady period of their revolt. Rebel leaders naively
insist that they can muster enough force with their light weaponry
and poorly trained volunteers to defend towns and positions against
a mechanized assault by Yugoslav troops.
On the hills and roads surrounding rebel-held areas, now as much
as 40 percent of the province, the government of Yugoslavia, of
which Serbia is one of two remaining republics, is positioning
hulking tanks. It also has sent armored personnel carriers and
spider webs of green camouflage netting that mask huge howitzers as
well as mortar and sniper positions.
The government troops are slowly strangling the rebel
strongholds, having seized the main road between Pec and Djakovica
from the insurgents over the past few days. The shattered houses
along the road, many with gaping holes, speak of fierce combat.
Serbia, for its part, at times seems as oblivious as the rebels
to the reality of its position, apparently ignoring the likely
long-range impact of the fury provoked by its counterinsurgency
sweeps, which have left over 300 people dead and caused 80,000
people to be displaced from their homes since March.
Since these assaults began, the ethnic Albanians who make up 90
percent of the province's 2 million people have largely abandoned a
tactic of peaceful resistance in their drive for independence.
War has a choreography that only its participants understand.
Fighters, locked in an embrace, feel out the daily beat and rhythm
until the set is shattered by a surge of violence. The old order is
then replaced with another, just as ephemeral as the last.
Such a dance is under way in Kosovo, where armed peasant farmers
and other residents, joined by hundreds of rebels who have picked
up weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania, are
facing down 50,000 government soldiers and special police.
In this village, about 40 miles southwest of Pristina, the
provincial capital, the men in the camouflage gear wear baseball
caps with red patches that show the black double-headed Albanian
eagle and the initials UCK, the Albanian acronym for the rebel
Kosovo Liberation Army.
The long, black snout of a captured 20 mm anti-aircraft canon
sticks out from the little fort toward the deserted road, strewn
with rocks and branches, that meanders out of the village.
The United States, in an effort to stay the hand of Yugoslav
President Slobodan Milosevic, has threatened NATO intervention
unless the soldiers are withdrawn from the province and
negotiations with a moderate ethnic Albanian leader, Ibrahim
Rugova, are resumed.
It increasingly appears, however, that Milosevic is biding his
time until he sees an opportune moment to strike to wipe out the
rebellion. That moment may not be far away, given the bickering
within NATO over what to do in Kosovo with some nations, but not
the United States, saying that intervention requires U.N.
authorization.
But a push to wipe out the rebel zones would be likely to force
the insurgents to move into the hills, to build smaller, more
fluid, bands and to widen the scope of the war perhaps bringing
it into Pristina. It would also create scores of new martyrs, the
fuse that ignited the current rebellion.
It was the earlier crackdown on the ethnic Albanian separatists
that led hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of ethnic Albanians who
had left Kosovo seeking new opportunities to quit their jobs in
Germany and Switzerland over the past several weeks and to travel
to northern Albania to join the rebel movement. Any prolonged war
also has the danger of drawing Albania, already a staging area and
sanctuary for the rebels, and Macedonia, which also has a restive
ethnic Albanian minority, into the conflict.
In Junik, Maloku, an architect wearing a green ammunitions pouch
strapped over his sweater and carrying an AK-47 assault rifle,
stood with a half dozen of his neighbors under the peaked barn roof
with its dark oak beams. The tractors, wooden rakes, buckets, empty
animal stalls and faint scent of machine oil gave to the cool
interior a sense of bucolic peace that helped soften the signs of
brutality outside. On the stucco walls of the house that faces the
barn are splotch marks from shrapnel explosions and drill-like
holes from sniper bullets.
The red tiled roofs of a housing complex, now being used as a
Yugoslav government military base, are visible through the canopy
of trees less than half a mile away.
The base was being reinforced Saturday with 120 special police
in blue helmets and flak jackets. The police were arriving crouched
down in the back of flatbed trucks with heavy metal plating on the
sides. The rust-colored plates with rectangular gun slits, were
apparently welded onto the trucks to protect the police from
ambushes by the guerrillas who control swathes of territory in the
border region with Albania and who have held Junik for three weeks.
Gani Shehu, 31, a stocky lawyer, is the president of the local
Democratic League of Kosovo, the ethnic Albanian party in Kosovo
led by the Rugova, who advocates peaceful change. Shehu spoke about
the conflict Saturday as he sat in his living room. A neighbor
whose mother had been killed by a Serb shell squatted over a small,
blue propane burner heating Turkish coffee in a small red metal
pitcher.
Shehu spoke about the attack on May 29, when Serb forces dropped
grenades and mortars on Junik for 12 hours, sending the 12,000
villagers along with 6,000 people there who had been driven out
of neighboring villages fleeing into the woods. A half dozen
people were killed and scores were injured.
The attack, like most along the border, was apparently intended
to depopulate the border villages and to form an empty buffer zone
to thwart the smuggling of weapons and fighters from Albania.
Serb helicopters, while never firing directly on the frightened
groups of villagers taking shelter in the trees, hovered overhead
after the attacks and let off machine gun bursts near the clusters
of people, those in Junik said.
With most of its houses damaged and its streets empty save for
improvised log barricades and debris from the shelling, Junik looks
desolate and still. Men with assault rifles flit in and out of the
shadows, appearing in doorways of broken homes and then backing
away into the gloomy interiors. A handful of elderly people who
could not make the 15-hour trek over the mountains and two Yugoslav
army deserters from Montenegro the other remaining republic in
Yugoslavia live with the outgunned band in this beleaguered
redoubt.
The Serb snipers, to keep those bottled up in the town on edge,
fire off a few rounds a day. There is desultory mortar fire. The
fields are untended because the farmers fear being exposed to the
snipers. Electricity and phone service have been cut, and food is
growing scarce.
The noose is being tightened around the town. Serb troops mined
the routes leading from Junik into Albania a week ago, the
villagers said. They said that the troops have looted and burned
five neighboring villages Molic, Brovina, Ponosevac, Popovac and
Morina in the past few days.
Those in the village appeared not fully aware of the weight of
the Serb firepower that awaited them up the road. They vowed they
would not flee. When asked if they were members of the guerrilla
movement they were hesitant and unsure.
Billows of black smoke spiraled into a crystal blue sky from a
lumberyard that had been set alight not far from the Serb
positions. A Serb helicopter flew toward Junik and then turned in a
wide arc toward the border, the thumping of its blades gradually
fading away.
When asked what his wife said before she left for Albania he
lowered his eyes.
And he has a Web site dedicated to the 16-year-old Russian
beauty to prove it.
The best example of the Kournikova Internet boom is on the ring
of Kournikova sites
(!bold!http://www.bomis.com/rings/Kournikova!off!). Among the links
to 59 homemade tributes are titles such as:
LENS, France When it ended with Jurgen Klinsmann surrounded on
a stretcher and Lothar Matthaus alone in the record books, the
Germans were the happier team, but it was not because they had
beaten the Yugoslavs.
It was because they had done what German teams were doing long
before East and West came together. They had rousted themselves
from a funk and rallied: scoring two goals in the final 16 minutes
to salvage a 2-2 draw and preserve their share of first place in
Group F.
This was a gripping match, full of odd bounces and odd plot
twists, but once again in this World Cup, violence outside the
stadium shifted some of the focus off events inside the stadium. A
French policeman and a Brazilian reporter were injured seriously in
separate incidents involving Germans who were in Lens for the game.
The policeman reportedly was hit in the back of the head with an
iron bar and was hospitalized in critical condition.
Two German fans also were sentenced to short prison sentences
after clashing with police in Paris on June 15 before Germany
played its opening match against the United States.
The last team to play the Americans in this tournament will be
the Yugoslavs, who can be sure of advancing to the second round
with another draw. The Americans have no chance of advancing after
their emotional loss Sunday night against Iran.
The Germans actually pressed harder than the Yugoslavs at the
start Sunday, but they quickly lost their enthusiasm when Mijatovic
struck a ball with his right foot in the direction of the German
goal. His 19-year-old teammate Dejan Stankovic sprinted toward it,
one step ahead of Jeremies, the fleet German midfielder. Stankovic
extended his leg. The ball brushed past it, deflected off the knee
of disoriented German goalkeeper Andreas Kopke and ricocheted off
the far post, bouncing off Jeremies' upper chest into the goal.
Though Stankovic appeared to play more of a passive than active
role in that complicated process, the gifted teen-ager was awarded
his first and probably not last World Cup goal. The Yugoslavs were
on their way to dominating the opening half in style, and if not
for some fine saves from Kopke, they might have increased their
lead in a hurry.
At halftime, German coach Berti Vogts substituted 37-year-old
Lothar Matthaus for Dietmar Hamann in midfield. Matthaus was not
supposed to be part of this German team at age 37, but after star
sweeper Mathias Sammer was unable to recover from a series of
injuries, Vogts swallowed his pride and reached out to the
outspoken veteran he once had vowed would never play for him again.
Matthaus' appearance made him the first man to play in 22 games in
the World Cup finals and it drew him even with former Mexican
goalkeeper Antonio Carbajal, the only other player to appear in
five World Cup finals.
But drawing even with Yugoslavia, not Carbajal, was the more
urgent objective, and it didn't help Germany's chances when the
normally reliable Kopke mishandled a low, well-struck shot from
striker Darko Kovacevic. The ball slipped through his arms and
bounced in front of the charging Yugoslav captain Dejan Stankovic,
who joyfully gave his team a 2-0 lead in the 54th minute.
Vogts, thoroughly underwhelmed by his players' performance,
would substitute twice more, and in the 74th minute, one of those
substitutes, Michael Tarnat, unleashed a long free kick that
deflected off Mihajlovic's right leg and into the goal. Suddenly,
the urgency and intensity missing from Germany's play since the
opening minutes was back, and on a corner kick in the 80th minute,
Bierhoff rose high between two defenders and headed home the
equalizer.
Six minutes later, Klinsmann rose high in a German wall and took
a Mihajlovic free kick in the side of the chest. He dropped to the
ground and stayed there in a semi-conscious state as team doctors
sprinted to his side. The game would continue, but Klinsmann's role
in it had ended.
It was a day for German recoveries, and though they still share
the lead in Group F, the Germans did not share the Yugoslavs' pain
as they left Lens and began preparing to face Iran.
Austria, which is 78 percent Catholic, is a prosperous country
swept by the kind of religious disaffection and dissent that runs
throughout Western Europe and the United States and that that is
the bane of John Paul II's pontificate in his twilight years.
On his three-day visit, which ended Sunday, the pope's three
Masses were eagerly attended by believers, but the crowds were
small and restrained compared with the vast and jubilant seas of
humanity that greeted him on recent trips to Nigeria and Cuba, poor
nations hungry for the solace and attention of the bishop of Rome.
As he delivered his homilies, he made clear that his opposition
to issues dear to reformers has not wavered. And perhaps most
emphatically, he told the bishops of Austria, who are also divided
along ideological lines, to shape up.
The pope's remarks followed a highly public comment by one
bishop that had already riveted Austrian Catholics. At a mass
Saturday in the small town of St. Poelton, its conservative bishop,
Kurt Krenn, departed from his prepared text and offered a prayer
for Cardinal Hans Hermann Groer, who was forced to resign in 1995
amid allegations that he sexually molested young men in a monastery
20 years ago.
The scandal, which re-erupted in January after a priest made
fresh charges, was so politically stormy among Catholics that
Groer's successor, Schoenborn, announced in April that the charges
were true and apologized for Groer's actions.
Krenn, however, remained loyal to Groer, and dismissed the
priest who made his own accusation of sexual abuse by Groer public.
Demonstrators outside the mass Saturday carried black balloons to
signal their unhappiness with Krenn.
Even Austrians who are not actively practicing Catholics have
followed the Groer affair and Krenn's prayer for him in St. Poelton
was mentioned on most newscasts here.
Schoenborn, who is as conservative as the pope on doctrinal
issues, has sought to make peace within Austria's church by
engaging in dialogue with Catholic dissidents. He invited leaders
of one of the more prominent lay groups, We Are the Church, to sit
in the VIP section at Sunday's outdoor mass on Vienna's Heroes'
Square. They thanked him for the invitation but declined to attend
in protest against what they view as the pope's resistance to
reforms.
One liberal Catholic who did attend was the Rev. Eduard Fischer,
the priest who was dismissed from his parish duties by Krenn for
publicly airing his charges against Groer. He has since came as a
reporter for the dissident Catholic newsletter Ja, or yes.
Then and now, Bob Bennett seemed less interested in these
matters. And politically, he has never been comfortable declaring
himself, though he has represented Democrats and Republicans,
including former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger.
These days Bob Bennett is working on fending off Ms. Jones'
appeal of her case and fighting efforts by the independent counsel
to get top Clinton aides to testify about the president's
relationship with Monica Lewinsky, a former White House intern.
In his own downtown office, Bill Bennett is initially more
cautious than his brother, and still shows signs of the shy child
he was, mostly avoiding eye contact.
He has spent many months saying Clinton should resign if he had
an affair with Ms. Lewinsky. But only a few weeks ago, he said, he
decided to write a book about how the whole mess had lowered
America's moral standards, after reading a newspaper article about
a group of Republicans in Naperville, Ill.
Harvard's financial aid office was open 12 hours a day six days
a week in April for families to discuss their packages.
Students from lower-income groups, including members of
minorities, who are not at the top of their classes, may be
rejected because of their inability to afford the tuition, while
students of similar qualification but higher income will get in.
The trend is also visible at some state institutions. This past
season, some state legislatures, including those of Kentucky,
Florida and Louisiana, which control state university budgets,
moved toward merit aid in an effort to keep the most promising
students in their states.
The move toward greater use of merit scholarships, particularly
at a time of record stock portfolios, has some scholars asserting
that colleges are backing away from traditional responsibilities.
The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
Monday, June 22 and thereafter. For questions about stories,
contact William Toren at the Daily News, (818) 713-3702.
LONDON He is a fan of pop music and fast food, an avid swimmer
and tennis player. He prefers action adventure books to novels and
even likes the swallow-tail coat, starched collar and striped
trousers he must wear at Eton.
Sixteen years old Sunday, the winsome young man destined to be
king of England says that the only uncomfortable part of his life
is dealing with the shrieking teen-age girls who swoon at his
sight.
With his exams at Eton finished, Prince William celebrated his
birthday Sunday out of public view with friends at an undisclosed
location and spoke to his family on the telephone.
But aides to his father, Prince Charles, at St. James' Palace,
are seeking to balance the young man's need for privacy with the
widespread interest in him. They published a mass of details about
his adolescence culled from official records and answers he gave to
written questions from The Press Association, Britain's domestic
news agency.
What emerged was a portrait of a youth mature beyond his age but
with the normal enthusiasms and tastes of a teen-ager intact after
a tumultuous year that forced him into a public role long before
anyone intended.
Publication of the managed information was seen as a reward to
the British press for its adherence to Press Complaint Commission
rules made more strict to shield Prince William and his brother,
Prince Harry, after the death of their mother, Diana, princess of
Wales, in an automobile crash in Paris last Aug. 31.
Next in line to the throne after his father, William attracted
enormous sympathy and admiration by the dignity and fortitude of
his participation in Diana's funeral. He accepted flowers from
mourners outside Buckingham Palace with remarkable composure and
then strode solemnly behind her coffin in the procession from St.
James' Palace to Westminster Abbey.
Under the tightened press guidelines, the two boys can be
photographed only at carefully rationed arranged occasions, usually
with their father.
It was one of those moments, a ski trip to Vancouver, British
Columbia, last March, that alerted the palace to what a pin-up the
6-foot-1-inch prince with the shock of blond hair, blue eyes and
downward-looking shy smile so reminiscent of his mother has become
to teen-age girls. Hundreds of them gave him a weeping and
screaming rock star greeting as he playfully tried on a red
Canadian team Winter Olympics beret and grinned in embarrassment.
He professed to like school, a marked contrast to his father's
loathing of the ascetic Gordonstoun school in Scotland that he
attended at the same age. William plans to focus on geography,
biology and history of art, and has not decided yet what university
he will apply to. His father studied at Trinity College, Cambridge.
He said he longs to go on safari in Africa, something he missed
out on last year when his father and brother visited South Africa.
He enjoys writing letters and keeps in touch with his family by
phone. Besides tennis, sports he has excelled at include swimming,
soccer, polo, rugby and team clay-pigeon shooting.
Prince William will probably be spared the kind of embarrassment
suffered by his father, who was derided by the press when he
wandered into a Highland pub near his prep school, bellied up to
the bar and ordered a cherry brandy.
William is not expected to take up his formal royal duties until
after his graduation from college six years from now, and the press
is bound by the code of nonintrusion until then. But the Guardian
speculated this weekend that the timing might end up differently.
For the last year, Kocher's four-man consulting firm in San
Francisco has kept big credit-card companies and banks on edge by
sharing details of his discovery of a way to break into the newest
version of smart cards credit-card size devices that contain a
tiny computer chip and can be used for a variety of purposes
including storing so-called digital cash.
Although Kocher's intent has been to warn the industry and sell
it possible solutions, his expertise in the hands of thieves,
counterfeiters or impostors could compromise the security
safeguards of smart cards, which are coming into widespread use in
the United States and Europe.
The cards are at the center of the plans by the banking and
credit-card industries to cut costs and improve customer
convenience by replacing conventional magnetic-stripe cards with
ones that not only can act as a debit or automated-teller-machine
card but can also be loaded with digital cash that would function
as legal tender wherever merchants have digital-cash decoder
terminals.
Kocher and his colleagues were able to crack the digital code
designed to make the smart cards tamperproof by drawing
mathematical inferences from the fluctuating electrical power
consumption of the chip.
Though already in wide use as bank cards in Europe, smart cards
in the United States have been mainly used so far for controlling
access to buildings and protecting against fraudulent use of new
types of cellular telephones. But U.S. banks have begun
experimenting with the cards, as Chase Manhattan is doing in a test
of Mastercard International's Mondex system on the Upper West Side
of New York City.
Banks trust that the computer chips embedded in tamper-resistant
packaging will act like a virtual branch office, dispensing money
and crediting accounts to the right people. But if someone could
break through the card's defense, then that person could conduct
fraudulent transactions, load counterfeit digital cash onto the
cards or create various other forms of mischief.
So even as smart-card executives seek to play down the threat
posed by Kocher's discovery, and they stress that no known
break-ins of his sort have occurred in the real world, the industry
knows it must continuously improve smart-card software and
hardware.
In fact, some other industry executives expect it to take
perhaps two years before there will be smart cards and related
hardware that will be impervious to Kocher's type of attack.
Kocher said he had approached the smart-card industry last year
with the details of his discovery because he knew that criminals
might also use the same tricks. But he said that he did not
publicize his findings, so that the industry would have time to
adopt defenses, including techniques for which he has filed for
patents and which he is now licensing to the companies.
Kocher's company, Cryptography Research, analyzes and tests
computer-security hardware and software for many of the leading
computer companies. His discoveries of flaws in supposedly secure
technologies have drawn attention in the past as in 1995, when he
found that he could break into smart cards by simply timing how
long it took them to process data.
In the case of this newly disclosed smart-card problem, Kocher
and his colleagues found that the cards' consumption of electrical
power could disclose vital information about the secret key that
protects the money or other data on the chip.
By watching the monitor of an oscilloscope, a device that
measures the power use on a screen similar to the way a cardiac
monitor displays a patient's heart action, Kocher's team was able
in some cases to use the electrical pattern from a single
transaction to decipher the key to the code. In other cases, they
were forced to use more sophisticated statistical techniques to
analyze the results from as many as 1,000 transactions.
Kocher said his team had spent at least as much time looking for
solutions as it had in identifying the security flaw. A possible
remedy involves masking the transaction in digital noise by adding
meaningless random calculations that would consume random amounts
of current.
Another possible solution, which according to Mastercard
officials is being incorporated in the latest version of its Mondex
smart-card software, is to vary the order of the operations in the
software to make it more difficult to identify patterns in the
consumption of power.
A banking-industry goal with smart cards is to cut costs by
eliminating the need for central approval of a debit or credit
transaction. By some estimates, the marginal costs for clearing a
smart-card transaction are well under a penny. Credit-card
transactions, however, typically require a long-distance computer
network and a large central database for examining each deal, and
the transaction eventually means billing a customer and cashing the
payment checks.
These steps add up to 25 cents a transaction, on average,
compared with about a penny for a smart-card transaction, in which
all the authorization information and even the money itself can
be contained on the card's chip.
Fletcher, of Mastercard's Mondex, contends that including any
sort of central control runs counter to the purpose of a smart card giving customers the ability to use the money on a card just like
cash.
More than 1,500 riot police have been deployed ahead of Monday's
World Cup soccer match between England and Romania. Bars have been
ordered to close at midnight. Open-air concerts have been called
off.
Certainly, the measures looked draconian on Sunday. Even an
English mascot, a man dressed up as a lion, looked docile enough,
padding around central Toulouse with all the menace of a poodle.
The main ambition of most fans seemed to be to burn as red as
possible as fast as possible while singing as out of tune as
possible.
There is the sun, of course, particularly scorching when
combined with alcohol. There is high unemployment, especially among
North African immigrants and their children. There is strong
support for the xenophobic National Front party. And now there is
the spark of soccer, at once religion, ritual, and, for some,
surrogate war.
Police reports now suggest that there was indeed some
provocation of the English in Marseilles from the large population
there of Tunisian or North African descent. As the arrest Sunday of
dozens of German fans in Lens showed, the English are by no means
alone. It is sometimes hard to know where soccer thuggery meets
plain vandalism.
The tournament also leaves plenty of room for good old-fashioned
bigotry. Soccer, it was once said, is not a life-and-death matter;
it is much more important that that. Never mind Romania, several
English fans said Sunday. Just wait for the old rivals Argentina
or Germany and then the real action will start.
TEHRAN, Iran After just a couple dramatic soccer goals, one of
the most restrictive countries on earth could not be restrained.
Throngs of Iranians millions by some unofficial estimates took to the streets and clogged them at 1:30 a.m., blowing horns,
dancing and chanting immediately after their national team's 2-1
defeat of the United States in the World Cup soccer tournament in
Lyon, France.
At 3:30 a.m. in Tehran, a city where it is usually difficult to
find a restaurant open after midnight, car horns were still
blaring.
The fever over the game illustrated the extremes of Iran's
culture in flux, where women can still be arrested unless they
cover their hair with scarves, where alcohol is prohibited and
where the national image centers on its mantle as a country for the
persecuted downtrodden.
Earlier, at a community center in an upscale north Tehran
neighborhood, about 80 fans became irate when police entered and
shut off the televised game broadcast that was taking place on a
big screen.
Organizers of the showing, after ten minutes of soccer action
had been missed, convinced the police to let the broadcast
continue. They then flashed lights on and off as they implored the
crowd to hush whenever cheering got loud, warning that the police
could return any minute.
Minutes after the victory, however, smiling police leaned on
their cars cross-armed, watching youths climb tall street lights in
celebration. Thousands of police had been deployed across the city,
but there were no immediate reports that any interfered with the
celebrations.
They have closely followed the cautious offers of dialogue that
their new moderate President Mohammad Khatami has exchanged with
President Bill Clinton.
One woman, pressing the limits by joining a spontaneous all-male
parade, shouted her thanks to the bemused and for once not feared police.
But generally, the jubilation was more about a love for soccer
and a needed emotional release in what can be a sterile society.
The hard-fought first round battle in Lyon was more than just a
confrontation between two global foes. Rather, the victory provided
a chance for Iranians to celebrate a slow emergence from world
isolation and to test freedoms cautiously advocated by a
charismatic new president.
Earlier Sunday, a the second day of the work week here, many
Iranians were disappointed to see their hard-line parliament
impeach one of the key reformers in the cabinet of President
Khatami. It was the latest maneuver in the struggle between the
country's conservative and moderate factions.
But, the Iranian soccer team, the first to make the World Cup
since the Islamic revolution in 1979, won the day with its triumph.
The street celebrations were the third in just over a year others were held when the team qualified for the tournament and
after the election of Khatami.
The night began calmly. Traffic was heavy as people prepared for
the game and it seemed that boys were playing soccer in makeshift
goals on nearly every vacant lot or alley.
Though police did not take a high-profile on the street, they
had kept most community centers from showing the game and most
watched it at home.
At the north Tehran center where the game was shown, those
attending were not permitted to carry cameras to record the
gathering, apparently to discourage excessive celebration in the
event of a victory.
TEHRAN, Iran After just a couple dramatic soccer goals, one of
the most restrictive countries on earth could not be restrained.
Throngs of Iranians millions by some unofficial estimates took to the streets and clogged them at 1:30 a.m., blowing horns,
dancing and chanting immediately after their national team's 2-1
defeat of the United States in the World Cup soccer tournament in
Lyon, France.
At 3:30 a.m. in Tehran, a city where it is usually difficult to
find a restaurant open after midnight, car horns were still
blaring.
The fever over the game illustrated the extremes of Iran's
culture in flux, where women can still be arrested unless they
cover their hair with scarves, where alcohol is prohibited and
where the national image centers on its mantle as a country for the
persecuted downtrodden.
Earlier, at a community center in an upscale north Tehran
neighborhood, about 80 fans became irate when police entered and
shut off the televised game broadcast that was taking place on a
big screen.
Organizers of the showing, after ten minutes of soccer action
had been missed, convinced the police to let the broadcast
continue. They then flashed lights on and off as they implored the
crowd to hush whenever cheering got loud, warning that the police
could return any minute.
Minutes after the victory, however, smiling police leaned on
their cars cross-armed, watching youths climb tall street lights in
celebration. Thousands of police had been deployed across the city,
but there were no immediate reports that any interfered with the
celebrations.
They have closely followed the cautious offers of dialogue that
their new moderate President Mohammad Khatami has exchanged with
President Bill Clinton.
One woman, pressing the limits by joining a spontaneous all-male
parade, shouted her thanks to the bemused and for once not feared police.
But generally, the jubilation was more about a love for soccer
and a needed emotional release in what can be a sterile society.
The hard-fought first round battle in Lyon was more than just a
confrontation between two global foes. Rather, the victory provided
a chance for Iranians to celebrate a slow emergence from world
isolation and to test freedoms cautiously advocated by a
charismatic new president.
Earlier Sunday, a the second day of the work week here, many
Iranians were disappointed to see their hard-line parliament
impeach one of the key reformers in the cabinet of President
Khatami. It was the latest maneuver in the struggle between the
country's conservative and moderate factions.
But, the Iranian soccer team, the first to make the World Cup
since the Islamic revolution in 1979, won the day with its triumph.
The street celebrations were the third in just over a year others were held when the team qualified for the tournament and
after the election of Khatami.
The night began calmly. Traffic was heavy as people prepared for
the game and it seemed that boys were playing soccer in makeshift
goals on nearly every vacant lot or alley.
Though police did not take a high-profile on the street, they
had kept most community centers from showing the game and most
watched it at home.
At the north Tehran center where the game was shown, those
attending were not permitted to carry cameras to record the
gathering, apparently to discourage excessive celebration in the
event of a victory.
WASHINGTON Five months after investigators began exploring
allegations of a sexual relationship between President Clinton and
Monica Lewinsky, new lawyers for the former White House intern have
returned to the same standoff with independent counsel Kenneth
Starr that her previous attorneys confronted.
Details of the negotiations between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's
legal team, which appeared Sunday in The Washington Post and were
confirmed by people with knowledge of the investigation, suggest
the two sides are still far from an agreement that would lead to
her testimony.
Starr still insists that Ms. Lewinsky agree to plead guilty to
some offense relating to an affidavit she submitted in the sexual
harassment suit brought by Paula Jones against Clinton. That suit
has since been dismissed.
Ms. Lewinsky's new lawyers, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein,
longtime members of Washington's circle of elite attorneys, insist
on complete immunity for Ms. Lewinsky in exchange for testimony
that she had sex with Clinton. This deal is exactly what her
previous lawyer, William Ginsburg, had sought from Starr.
The negotiating distance between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's new
lawyers is likely to give some solace to Clinton and his legal team
at the White House. While White House officials were being careful
Sunday to say nothing in public about these newest indications that
Starr is still a long way from a deal with Ms. Lewinsky, they made
no secret of the fact that they were pleased.
A person with knowledge of the strategy of Ms. Lewinsky's
defense team said the major uncertainty concerns what evidence
Starr may have collected in months of grand jury testimony, which
continues this week.
Starr has been trying to find holes in Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit,
and may be able to establish that she failed to mention some
meetings with the president. He is especially concerned with
meetings that may have taken place as the Jones case gained
attention around Christmas, just ahead of the long Saturday
afternoon in which Clinton was himself deposed in the case.
For the deposition, lawyers for Ms. Jones asked the president at
length about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky which
subsequently prompted the president to call in his secretary, Betty
Currie, and lead her through a conversation about her own memories.
Ms. Currie was Ms. Lewinsky's main conduit as she tried to reach
the president and send him gifts and a tape.
Ms. Lewinsky may be seeking to strike a deal in which she admits
to having had a sexual relationship with the president, but denies
that there was any effort by the White House to alter her
testimony.
But on Capitol Hill, both Republicans and Democrats have said
that an allegation of an affair, without related charges of perjury
or of an effort to alter testimony, is unlikely to lead to
impeachment charges.
Moreover, additional descriptions of some of the key evidence in
the case 20 hours of secretly tape-recorded conversations in
which Ms. Lewinsky describes the nature of her relationship with
the president suggest that Starr may have difficulty proving that
Clinton or his friend Vernon Jordan sought to influence Ms.
Lewinsky's testimony.
The latest issue of U.S. News World Report describes two hours
of previously undescribed recordings and says they contain no
reference to any effort by Clinton or Jordan to have Ms. Lewinsky
lie about her relationship with the president.
The tapes are described by the magazine as bolstering the view
that Ms. Lewinsky was infatuated with the president but had been
cut off from access to him by autumn of last year.
Clinton's allies have long asserted that they expected the
revelation of further material from the tapes secretly made by
Linda Tripp, a former colleague of Ms. Lewinsky's at the Pentagon,
to be exculpatory.
That might not be far off, at least in the boxing world: Duva,
76, seems to be everywhere doing everything even though most of his
peers are long retired.
In a career that has spanned more than a half-century, he has
fought, trained, managed and promoted. And he's done it
successfully he's worked in some capacity with dozens of
champions and in a colorful manner all his own.
Last week, he joined the ranks of the greats in the sport: He
was elected to the International Boxing Hall of Fame.
The son of Italian immigrants grew up in poverty in Paterson,
N.J., about 10 miles outside New York City. Between myriad jobs and
school, he had already begun fighting at around 12 years old in
back rooms of restaurants and bars and had a short, undistinguished
professional career. However, his niche was outside the ring.
At 16, after driving a truck all day to help make ends meet at
home, he would spend every free evening at Stillman's Gym in New
York. There, he would watch some of the world's best fighters work
out but pay particular attention to the trainers and schmooze with
the managers.
Since then, he has worked with such title holders as Evander
Holyfield and Pernell Whitaker and currently handles rising star
Fernando Vargas of Oxnard.
His family's promotional firm, Main Events, also is one of the
most successful boxing enterprises in the world. The family's first
big break was acquiring a piece of Leon Spinks in 1978 the year
he beat and then lost to Muhammad Ali and promoted the first Ray
Leonard-Thomas Hearns fight in 1981. It has been a major player
since.
Duva has been particularly successful in signing and cultivating
U.S. Olympians. Main Events landed four gold-medal winners Whitaker, Mark Breland, Meldrick Taylor and Tyrell Biggs and
Holyfield from the 1984 team.
Most significant, he lost three people very dear to him: Former
heavyweight champion Rocky Marciano, his close friend, was killed
in a plane crash in 1969; his wife, Enes, died of multiple
sclerosis in 1986; and his son Dan died of brain cancer in 1996.
However, he has remained an always-positive, high-energy,
laugh-a-minute person who is a delight to be around.
He loves to tell stories and people love to listen, whether the
tales are true or fantasy.
And there are the more poignant stories, such as when Holyfield
knocked out Buster Douglas to win the heavyweight title his
greatest moment in boxing.
He had always told himself that if one of his fighters ever won
the heavyweight title, he'd dedicate it to Marciano.
And Duva's stories and humor aren't reserved for a select few:
He seems to have time for anyone and everyone in spite of his
hectic schedule.
He won't hold back when he has something to say. For example, he
doesn't think Oscar De La Hoya is as good as many believe and says
it openly.
And he remains a tough guy who won't back down from a scrap in
spite of a heart attack in 1979. In the melee that followed the
Riddick Bowe-Andrew Golota fight in July of 1996, Duva was in the
middle of the fray and ended up in the hospital after slumping to
the canvas.
Still, Duva is a people person if there ever was one. He loves
people and they love him, a key to his success.
No one knows this more than his fighters, to whom he's
passionately devoted. So many have become part of the Main Events
and Duva family.
Mismatch?: Rafael Ruelas will be a significant underdog when he
faces Kostya Tszyu in a title-elimination bout on Aug. 15.
Many observers have rolled their eyes at the prospect of the
matchup. Prevailing wisdom says Ruelas, with 55 fights, has
deteriorated as a fighter and couldn't possibly contend with
Tszyu's skill and power.
Well, if anyone can pull a surprise under these daunting
circumstances, it's Ruelas, who rose from two knockdowns to beat
Freddie Pendleton and win the IBF lightweight title in 1994.
When John Sykes took over as president of the cable channel VH1
in 1994, he had a theory:
The channel started in 1985 with the purpose of staving off
competition for MTV. That year, Ted Turner had started a competing
music channel, so MTV Networks offered VH1 free to cable operators,
killing off the threat. But the channel's identity as a separate
music network was never firmly established.
In the four years since Sykes took over, VH1 has found a formula
that has significantly increased its ratings and driven up profits.
Indeed, VH1 has the highest concentration of advertisers' most
desirable viewers, those 18 to 49. As a result, advertisers from
American Express to Lexus have added VH1 to their buying plans.
Indeed, the United States' largest cable operator,
Tele-Communications Inc., had already dumped VH1 from more than one
million homes to accommodate several channels in which it owned a
financial interest, including Fox News, Animal Planet and Home and
Garden. Fortunately, Sykes said, VH1, with its new adult-music
format, had managed to build up some loyal fans by then, both in
the television audience and in the music industry.
The reason this somewhat startling development can be true is
that neither CBS, ABC nor Fox earned much money if any this
year. So the $42.5 million in profit for VH1 for 1998, as estimated
by Paul Kagan Associates, looks good by comparison. The results for
MTV shows the potential for a cable channel, with the channel
making about $250 million during the same period.
But VH1 is looking good by comparison in several areas,
including its overall appeal to viewers between 18 and 49, the
favorite group of most advertisers. According to Nielsen Media
research, VH1 has the highest concentration of those viewers about 88 percent of its viewers fall in that range in all of
cable.
Sykes sees VH1's growing success as confirmation of his theory
about how the generation of music fans who grew up in the 1960s and
'70s refused to relinquish their proprietary interest in music.
President Clinton fits the description of a baby boomer with a
continuing passion for music, Sykes said. He has several personal
letters from the president attesting to his interest in the
channel's programming. (The president was especially taken by a
series of specials VH1 did on the 20th anniversary of the death of
Elvis Presley, Sykes said.)
Even though their rotted shoes are falling off them and they are
living on dried corn and pumpkin leaves they carry 12 miles from
home, the black squatters on Daskop Farm are being extraordinarily
careful of the white owner's property. They want the farm they
say it is their ancestral land, and can even point out a stone they
say their great-great-grandmothers ground corn on. But right now
they are not willing even to walk across one of his fallow fields.
In the endless war over land that began when whites seized the
country 120 years ago and led to government promises in recent
years to redistribute the land to poor farmers, a new front opened
this week. Hundreds of subsistence farmers from 20 villages in the
Svosve communal area left the stony hills their families had been
pushed into and moved onto three farms in the Marondera area.
An international outcry ensued, the currency plummeted and
farmers asserted that Cabinet ministers were plotting to steal
their best farms for retirement villas.
Since then, things have calmed down. The government, farmers and
international donors are talking. About 200 farms available for
sale were found, said David Hasluck, executive director of the
largely white Commercial Farmers Union, and about $800 million in
grants and loans from donors and banks has been offered on the
conditions that the land is paid for, that it goes to poor people
and that they are settled, not just dumped.
For the people of Svosve, time ran out. They said they picked
Daskop, Homepark and Igava farms from the government's list, and
are asking for parts that are not being used.
Daskop is an obviously well-run farm with a big irrigation pond,
a husking plant, fields of seed corn growing under plastic tents
and cattle fattening on watered grass. The squatters are living on
a distant corner, keeping to themselves. There has been no trouble,
said Shaun David, the farm manager, and he's been told by the owner
to leave the squatters alone.
The owners said they would use the sale proceeds to build new
housing and schools on their remaining farms, he said.
(On Sunday night, state television reported that the minister of
land thought he had convinced the squatters to go home until the
government can resettle them at its own pace.)
The squatters say the government has broken simple promises,
like handouts of seed corn, and among their leaders are veterans of
the 1980s war against white rule, whose association has recently
become so militant that it clashed with its former commander,
Mugabe.
If the squatters refuse to leave, the police may be asked to
move them.
As politicians moan about interminable fund-raising demands to
pay for brutal attack commercials, consultants who run many of
their campaigns and make many of the advertisements say it is not
their fault, and they suggest that if anyone is to blame for public
despair about the system, it is the news media.
A survey of more than 200 political consultants made public
Wednesday by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press
and the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at
American University found that the consultants were driven more by
the thrill of the competition than by ideology. And, by an
overwhelming proportion, they believed that focusing on an
opponent's weaknesses was perfectly acceptable.
The survey offered a rare glimpse into the minds of political
consultants, who play enormous roles in packaging candidates and
preparing them to run for office but usually are overshadowed by
the politicians for whom they work. This is the first time that so
many leading consultants most have been involved in major races
over the last three election seasons have been interviewed for
one survey.
While more than half of those surveyed blamed the media for
discouraging people from running for office because news
organizations dwell too much on the personal lives of candidates,
many consultants made clear that they were not particularly
impressed by their own candidates. Most consultants emphasized the
importance of their own roles and also criticized the public as
poorly informed and lacking sound judgment about issues.
James Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies, said he was struck by the degree to which
consultants refused to take responsibility for public
disillusionment with the political process.
The consultants seemed to play down the importance of the
candidates' political skills. Asked for the most important factor
in winning an election, the candidate's campaign ability ranked
fourth after quality of the message, amount of money available and
the partisan makeup of the state or House district.
While 71 percent of the Republican consultants characterized the
quality of current House and Senate candidates as excellent or
good, only 39 percent of the Democratic consultants gave such high
marks to their candidates. Democrats were far more likely than
Republicans to say that the quality of congressional contenders had
diminished since they began working in politics.
And while Democratic consultants were much more inclined than
Republicans to favor reforming campaign finance, Democrats placed
slightly more importance on making money as a motivation for their
working on behalf of a candidate.
Some of the responses in the survey, conducted by telephone from
November 1997 to March 1998, appeared a bit contradictory.
Seventy-three percent of Democrats and 57 percent of Republicans
said negative campaigns caused cynicism among voters. But asked
whether the candidate or the consultant recommended going negative,
83 percent of the Democrats said consultants, as did 77 percent of
the Republicans.
Nearly every respondent agreed that the news media devoted more
coverage to negative strategies, and 83 percent said voters were
more apt to respond to negative campaigning. And nearly two-thirds
said the way the news media reported on politics had a great deal
to do with cynicism in the electorate.
While most consultants said negative campaigning was not
unethical, 41 percent said unethical conduct did sometimes occur.
More than half said the most common unethical practice related to
misrepresenting an opponent's positions in advertising or in
campaign oratory.
WASHINGTON As President Clinton prepares to go to China this
week, the central foreign policy drama in Washington is the
increasing congressional furor over the administration's engagement
policy, in particular the sense that Clinton is damaging national
security in his eagerness to promote relations with Beijing.
Congressional leaders, mostly Republican, argue that Clinton and
the executive branch are ignoring a pattern of Chinese exports of
dangerous nuclear, chemical and ballistic missile technology. The
motive, the critics say, is that the White House wants to avoid
imposing the sanctions that the law requires.
The administration is also under new attack for authorizing the
export of commercial satellites for launching aboard Chinese
rockets, a process that may have provided technical details that
China could use to improve the accuracy of its nuclear-tipped
missiles.
Administration officials complain that Congress confuses voting
on sanctions legislation with formulating a working policy on
nonproliferation and that Congress sets even stricter requirements
for Chinese behavior than international agreements do. In essence,
the officials complain, Congress does not allow the president to
take a broader, more nuanced view of American national interests.
They say the laws do not always provide the flexibility for the
executive branch to accomplish the real ends of the legislation,
less proliferation.
The intense argument between the executive and legislative
branches reflects two approaches for dealing with China that are
not, at their core, partisan differences, although the renewed
presummit debate is intensely political. Although Republican
leaders, including the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, R-Miss.,
and Speaker Newt Gingrich are among Clinton's most vocal critics on
Chinese proliferation, Democratic senators including John Glenn of
Ohio have long shared some of the same concerns.
There is wide agreement that China has significantly improved
its record on nuclear, missile, chemical and biological exports
since the 1980s, when it advocated nuclear proliferation as a form
of anticolonial equity. China gave Pakistan the design for a
nuclear weapon and the materials to make it, and it shipped
missiles to the Middle East. Prompting China to curtail such
exports has been its growing international maturity, combined with
pressure and engagement from the United States, including the apt
use of sanctions.
The attention from Republicans is on whether the Chinese
government illegally contributed to the Democratic Party and used
advice from U.S. aerospace companies to improve its strategic
missiles. But that feeds on the more longstanding and bitter
argument over whether China remains a dangerous exporter to Iran
and Pakistan and whether its behavior is improving through
engagement.
In the broadest sense this is just another chapter in the debate
about the wisdom of an engagement policy with China that dates from
Presidents Nixon, Reagan and Bush. Even Clinton, after criticizing
engagement in the 1992 presidential campaign, embraced it as the
best way to influence Chinese behavior in the next century.
One skeptic is Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment, who
complains that under Clinton, engagement is uncritical. Any action
to constrain Chinese behavior can be rationalized as harmful to the
larger goal of drawing China into international relationships that
may moderate the government in Beijing, he said.
The debates swirl over detailed findings about what might be in
certain crates shipped by China to Pakistan in the early '90s and
whether they contained missiles or missile parts, as is widely
believed but not proven. And if the crates did contain missiles,
were they Chinese M-11 missiles or another kind, and with what
range?
Similarly, what specific help has China provided Pakistan to
build one certain factory in Rawalpindi, and is that factory
designed to produce missiles and, if so, what kind and what range,
and will they be considered Chinese or Pakistani?
Those questions matter, because the different laws are specific
about what requires different sanctions. The only missiles subject
to sanctions fall under the Missile Technology Control Regime,
which covers those capable of carrying warheads of 500 kilograms,
or 1,100 pounds, at least 300 kilometers, 190 miles.
National security is never separate from domestic politics, a
senior congressional staff member said, which is why presidents
from every party prefer not to receive perfect answers.
TEHRAN, Iran In a high-stakes political battle filled with
recriminations and rage, Iran's Parliament voted Sunday to dismiss
one of the closest allies of Mohammad Khatami, the reform-minded
president.
Parliament is controlled by Khatami's enemies. Its action Sunday
is the most serious political setback to his presidency since his
landslide victory 13 months ago as well as graphic proof of
Khatami's limited room for maneuver in Iran's Islamic Republic.
The vote comes just just three days after Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright warmly praised Khatami and the reforms made
since he took office and held out the prospect of eventual
normalization of relations with Iran.
The vote, 137-117 with 11 abstentions, came in a secret ballot
after several hours of impassioned debate in which Noori was
accused of arrogantly dismissing officials who did not share his
politics, fostering an unstable economic environment and putting
the country's security at risk.
The vote was as much an attack against Khatami as it was against
Noori, and it is part of a wider campaign led by conservative
members of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to the
president.
The parliamentary session was broadcast live on radio and later
on television as millions of Iranian viewers were awaiting the live
broadcast of the World Cup soccer match between the United States
and Iran at 11 p.m. Both opponents and supporters of Noori stepped
up to the lectern in the center of the parliamentary hall to air
their views.
Noori was reflecting the position voiced repeatedly by Khatami
and his supporters that what is at stake is nothing less than the
soul of the nation. According to this line of thinking, unless Iran
becomes freer at home and more open to the outside world, it will
lose the allegiance of the generation that has been born in the 19
years since the monarchy was overthrown.
But Khatami is fiercely opposed by those clerics and their
followers who believe that the core beliefs of the revolution are
being sacrificed.
Nateq-Noori had been the front-runner for president and lost in
an upset to Khatami.
Noori, 49, a mid-ranking cleric from Isfahan, has been an
outspoken proponent of Khatami's commitment to impose a rule of law
and has come under fire for issuing permits to allow groups to
conduct peaceful demonstrations.
Under the constitution, the country's spiritual leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and not the president, controls the
judiciary, as well as the military, radio and television and the
intelligence and security services.
But Khatami has encouraged Noori to challenge decisions by the
judiciary particularly the arrest of Tehran Mayor Gholamhossein
Karabaschi, who is on trial on corruption and embezzlement charges.
The trial is broadcast on television in the evenings.
Noori has also strongly supported Karabaschi and has openly
criticized the chief of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammed Yazdi,
for arresting the mayor in April without telling Noori.
In another sign that he had no intention of surrendering to
Parliament, Khatami appointed Mostafa Tajzadeh, a deputy minister
of the interior, as the acting minister. Tajzadeh, a staunch
supporter of the president, was also criticized Sunday by some
members of Parliament.
WASHINGTON As Congress counts down the weeks before it
adjourns for the November elections, the House and Senate are
getting down to the one task they are required to perform every
year passing the 13 spending bills that keep the government
running in the coming fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
The process is already showing the strains of the spending
limits imposed by the balanced-budget agreement that Congress
reached last year with the Clinton administration.
Even though experts are forecasting a budget surplus of as much
as $64 billion this year, lawmakers are constrained by strict
limits that raise the amount for day-to-day government operations
by only one percent over last year's levels, to about $533 billion.
But they also want to have something to brag about at home, and a
year of surpluses tempts many to reach into the treasury.
The dynamics are further complicated by various ideological
divides between House and Senate Republicans, between both houses
and the administration, and among House Republicans themselves.
This blurs a sense of priorities, particularly as lawmakers
continue to pursue their own pet projects and as Democrats seek to
portray the Republicans as in complete chaos.
There is no broad budget resolution to guide them, because the
House and Senate cannot agree on one. So lawmakers are using last
year's resolution as a map, recognizing that they may have to make
further cuts if a resolution is ever adopted. Beyond that, Congress
has already approved a massive highway bill that many members
believe has used up the little discretionary money they had.
Despite the unresolved conflicts, lawmakers must keep to a
timetable that will have them discussing a half-dozen bills on the
floors of both the House and Senate this week.
Obey said that while Republicans wanted to appear to be holding
the line on spending, they had privately sought out Livingston and
requested 7,000 items that would raise total spending by $278
million.
The tension between the two goals was threatening to disrupt the
House, but on Friday, House leaders quelled a mini-rebellion.
Both conservatives and moderates were worried about the
budget-busting potential of a $4 billion appropriation that Speaker
Newt Gingrich and Livingston had put toward solving the year 2000
computer problem, which could hobble the government at the end of
the millennium.
Livingston and Gingrich had cast the $4 billion as an emergency a designation that allows Congress to spend money without having
to seek equal cuts in some other program. But many members railed
at this as a gimmick.
The leaders including Gingrich backed off the plan. They
agreed instead to put the $4 billion into a separate bill and to
make $4 billion in cuts elsewhere, although they did not say where.
The process is fraught with such problems. One of the most
difficult is that in such a tight budget, spending for one lawmaker
invariably means cuts for another.
For example, Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, urged a subcommittee last
week not to agree to a $50 million proposal by Vice President Al
Gore to send pictures of Earth by satellite to computers 24 hours a
day. DeLay said private companies could pay for the pictures if
anyone wanted them.
This prompted Obey to suggest that if Gore's project was not
being financed because he was a Democrat, Democrats might highlight
projects sought by Gingrich, such as a $5.5 million designation for
programs at the American Museum of Natural History (Gingrich is
fond of animals), and $15 million to buy land in the Chattahoochee
River watershed in Georgia, Gingrich's home state.
At the same time, in another subcommittee, Rep. Sidney Yates,
D-Ill., suggested eliminating the Chattahoochee project so that
Illinois could build a visitors' center in a national park honoring
the starting point of the Lewis and Clark expedition.
Rep. Ralph Regula, R-Ohio, defended the Chattahoochee land
acquisition, saying it would prevent development of a major
recreation area. And he opposed the visitors' center for Illinois,
saying he had requests from 18 members to finance centers in parks
throughout the country and that he could not pick one over the
other.
GRAND PRAIRIE, Texas Jerry Jeff Walker has wailed beer-soaked
ballads in the paddock garden. Thousands of children have been
encouraged to wander through the petting zoo and family playground.
And Friday night, Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie played host to 12
of the nation's top riders in an unusual competition called the
all-star jockey championship.
Situated halfway between Dallas and Fort Worth, Lone Star is in
the second year of a remarkably successful launch into the troubled
world of thoroughbred racing. The track's secret has been to offer
customers more than the simple prospect of betting on horses and
instead try to be as many things to as many people as possible.
In that spirit came the jockey showdown, and before a capacity
crowd of 16,156 and a national television audience on ESPN2, Shane
Sellers collected $25,000 and the championship for gaining the most
points over four races against 11 of his celebrated peers.
There have been some encouraging signs recently in thoroughbred
racing, which is coming off a thrilling Triple Crown campaign and
finally has a well-financed central-marketing office to help guide
the sport into an increasingly crowded marketplace. And when the
newly formed National Thoroughbred Racing Association was looking
for a vehicle to help create year-round awareness for its sport, it
gravitated to this hustling Texas track and the second annual
jockey championship.
The jockey showcase is a departure for a regionalized industry
that has been slow to react to the onslaught of legalized gambling
and the sophisticated marketing techniques of other sports.
Twenty-five years ago, horse racing accounted for 28 percent of all
legally wagered money. In 1996, it totaled 7.8 percent, according
to International Gaming and Wagering Business magazine. Attendance
at the nation's tracks has declined from 54.4 million in 1991 to
34.4 million today.
But 80,162 people showed up at Belmont Park this month to
witness Victory Gallop launch a stirring stretch drive and prevent
Real Quiet from completing the first Triple Crown in 20 years. It
was the second straight year that a horse had gone to Belmont with
a chance to win the Triple Crown, comprising the Kentucky Derby,
the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes. And it was the second
straight year that the bid ended with a narrow defeat at the wire.
At the Lone Star jockey competition, those faces were among the
most accomplished in the sport. As a group, the 12 have won more
than 57,000 races for a staggering $1.56 billion in purses,
including victories in 38 Triple Crown events and 51 Breeders' Cup
races. But they also represented a cross-section of the sport's
potential appeal.
They ranged in age from 25-year-old Marlon St. Julien, a black
rider who is becoming a star on the Texas-Louisiana circuit, to
51-year-old Laffit Pincay, a legendary Panamanian who is pursuing
Bill Shoemaker's career record of 8,833 victories.
Jerry Bailey, a three-time Eclipse award winner, and Mike Smith
represented New York. Pat Day, a five-time Preakness winner, and
Sellers came from Kentucky. Canada's leading rider, Sandy Hawley,
was also on hand. Eddie Delahoussaye, Kent Desormeaux and Chris
McCarron, with Stevens and Pincay, rounded out the California
contingent. Krone, the most heralded female jockey, came from New
Jersey.
Lone Star Park conducted the program with both the new fan and
the educated gambler in mind north Texas possesses a
knowledgeable fan base that for years traveled to nearby Arkansas
and Louisiana to play the horses. The jockeys were mobbed at a
pre-race autograph session, and bands blasted rock-and-roll between
races.
The track even came up with a special wager available here and
in 138 simulcast sites nationwide, allowing fans to bet on which
jockey would win the championship. Sellers paid $14.80 for a $2 bet
to win the contest, and he and Krone together paid $150.80 for a $2
exacta.
It is that same combination of promotion and quality racing
(Lone Star offers a daily average of $200,000 in purses) that has
attracted the country's top horses and trainers, including the best
in the stable of Bob Baffert, the trainer of both Silver Charm and
Real Quiet.
Those efforts have helped Lone Star Park average 9,700 in daily
attendance and improve its wagering handle by 5 percent over last
year, to more than $3.1 million a day. This has been accomplished
despite the presence of four major league sports franchises and
auto racing within a 35-mile radius of the track.
All of which is perfectly plausible. So what, Lewis Carroll asks
in one of his books about symbolic logic, is the proper conclusion?
By now the paradoxes of his life have entered literary
mythology. The mathematician Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, an Oxford
don, was reported to have been quite a dull lecturer. But when he
adopted a pseudonym, he created exuberant fantasies for children
that leave the chalk board and lecture hall far behind.
He was eminently respectable, a lifelong bachelor and a close
family friend of the college's dean; but he was also almost
obsessively infatuated with the dean's prepubescent daughters,
particularly Alice Liddell, who, at the age of 10, was the
inspiration for his Alice books. And while in his diaries there are
traces of the stern moralist grimly recording his struggles with
unspecified temptations, in his books he turned all moral lessons
on their heads.
Del Tredici treats this as a miniopera, exaggerating the scale,
so it becomes a scene like one witnessed by Alice in one of her
many changes in size. As a result, the poem's solemn piety is
dissolved into a kind of wistful amusement at something from
another universe. Carroll dissolved it even more completely:
This is sleight of hand of a very high order, mocking moral
convention while apparently just creating nonsense. Something is at
stake in this satire, something that may be connected to the
unhappiness his biographer, Morton Cohen, finds in Carroll's life.
It may have arisen, in part, from Carroll's inability or
unwillingness to reconcile the disruptive looking-glass world with
the tautly controlled order of his own.
Cohen points out one occasion when some kind of disturbing
fantasy may have even broken through the veneer. Something took
place during late June 1863, after Alice had already inspired
Wonderland, that led to a nearly complete break between Carroll and
the Liddells.
Was it some sort of inappropriate behavior involving Alice?
(Cohen suggests a premature marriage proposal.) Or was it something
far less respectable, (which Cohen does not think too plausible)?
We will never know: The journal page on which Carroll had recorded
his transgression was neatly excised by a niece who found the
revelation too shocking.
Carroll's heirs range from P.L. Travers, who created a
ruthlessly unsentimental Mary Poppins, to Maurice Sendak, whose
painterly images of dream worlds can be more unsettling to adults
than to children.
But Carroll also tamed the irrationality by giving his nonsense
logical form. The effect in our own era of fierce conventions can
be bracing. Forget the issues of being and seeming, of propriety
and guilt, of threats and recriminations. Carroll offers
alternative advice:
Skip Away, who developed a slight swelling in his legs over the
weekend, was reported to be much improved Sunday. But his trainer,
Sonny Hine, said he would wait until his star horse worked out
Tuesday before clearing him to travel to California to race Silver
Charm and Gentlemen next Sunday in the $1 million Hollywood Gold
Cup.
Hine said Skip Away's legs were apparently strained during an
exercise gallop Friday morning when he swerved to avoid a horse
that had fallen in the mud. Skip Away, the champion older horse
last year and champion 3-year-old in 1996, unseated his rider, Jose
Sanchez, and got loose for 20 minutes before he was brought back by
an outrider.
Silver Charm, the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness
last year, was unexpectedly booked into the Gold Cup on Friday
afternoon. He left Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., Sunday and
flew to Los Angeles to run against his two chief rivals for honors
among older horses. He is 4 years old, Skip Away is 5 and Gentlemen
is 6.
The Hollywood Gold Cup, at a mile and a quarter, would be the
first meeting of the three horses. But the handlers of all three
have expressed interest in running in the $1 million Pacific
Classic at Del Mar in August, the Jockey Club Gold Cup at Belmont
Park in October and, ultimately, in the $4 million Breeders' Cup
Classic at Churchill Downs in November.
WIMBLEDON, England They have put down new outdoor carpeting on
the Center Court since Pete Sampras won the Wimbledon title last
year, an ambitious bit of redecorating not tried here for the past
30 years.
For Sampras and for Wimbledon, change is rarely a welcome
commodity. But since he will be getting a toehold on the usual
rugged blend of natural rye and fescue that he has trampled all
four times he has won this championship, the innovation should not
prove too unsettling for Sampras. He has more pressing problems to
deal with than the greenery.
Though Sampras is as tradition-minded as the keepers of this All
England Club, the underage grass figures to be the least of his
worries as he seeks to become the first man since Bjorn Borg to
capture five Wimbledon titles. He has a slump to shake off and a
drought in Grand Slam events to repair, not to mention a full cast
of characters intent on taking advantage of his fallibility through
the first half of 1998. Had Sampras performed up to snuff this year
at the Grand Slam events, he might already have tied Roy Emerson's
career record dozen championships by now; instead, he has come into
Wimbledon behind schedule.
Sampras said the potential threats include the brute servers
such as fourth-seeded Greg Rusedski, who has a sprained ankle,
14th-seeded Goran Ivanisevic, who received a 10-spot improvement
from Wimbledon's seeding committee in deference to his final-round
appearances in 1992 and 1994, and the 1996 champion Richard
Krajicek.
But Krajicek, like Australia's sixth-seeded Patrick Rafter, the
slump-ridden U.S. Open champion, has yet to prove that he is
capable of winning more than one Grand Slam event.
Besides the superlative servers, Sampras gave a nod in the
direction of stylish returners such as 13th-seeded Andre Agassi and
eighth-seeded Cedric Pioline; but both of them arrived with less
than intimidating grass-court preparation.
True to his maverick sensibilities, Agassi, who suffered a
demeaning opening-round loss to Russia's Marat Safin, an
18-year-old qualifier, at the French Open, was the only seeded man
to avoid all of the grass-court warm-up events. After all, he won
the 1992 title here after electing to do the same haphazard
preparation, much of it on the hardcourts that he claims hone his
timing.
As for Pioline, last year's surprise runner-up, his Wimbledon
preparation was made on a conspicuously sour note. He was ejected
at Nottingham for cursing at the chair umpire, Pedro Bravo, during
his match against Australia's Scott Draper, this year's Queen's
Club champion.
Agassi opens Monday on Court 1 against Alex Calatrava, another
Spaniard with no Wimbledon credentials, but Pioline could encounter
an immediate stumbling block in Switzerland's Marc Rosset.
No. 7-seeded Yevgeny Kafelnikov, who won the Halle title only to
have his grass-court prowess evaporate last week at Rosmalen, where
Detroit's Steve Campbell upended him, has the versatility to mount
an impressive Wimbledon campaign. But he, like Sampras, has been
experiencing some confidence tremors of late, and his first-round
assignment against Mark Philippoussis, whose gigantic serve is
dwarfed by the colossal unreliability of the rest of his strokes,
will be a litmus test.
With the exception of Sampras, not one of the players who has
picked up a title at the last five Grand Slam events has managed to
collect a title since. And Petr Korda, the Australian Open
champion, has botched repeated chances to supplant Sampras.
RENO, Nev. Against the vivid backdrop of recent fatal school
shootings, elected officials across the United States for the first
time are coordinating efforts, sometimes with unlikely partners, to
reduce the incidents of gun violence.
In perhaps the most unusual of the collaborations, Philadelphia
Mayor Edward Rendell has agreed to join forces with the National
Rifle Association to create a model program in Philadelphia to test
one of the NRA's core beliefs, that vigorous prosecution of people
who violate federal gun laws would eliminate more violent crime
than tighter gun-control laws.
In a broader effort aimed at finding other solutions to the same
problems, representatives of the nation's firearms industry have
formed a task force with several mayors and county executives to
study innovative ways to prevent guns from getting into the hands
of children and criminals.
Rendell's pending collaboration with the NRA arose out of a
challenge by the association's new president, actor Charlton
Heston. At the NRA's convention two weeks ago in Philadelphia to
which Rendell was not invited because of his support for tighter
gun-control measures Heston proposed that the federal government
designate one large U.S. city to test the NRA's theory that most
gun violence occurs because the criminal justice system is not
tough enough on criminals.
Heston suggested Philadelphia might be a good place to test it,
because homicide rates there have held steady over the last decade,
at more than 400 a year, despite what Rendell contends have been
vigorous prosecutions and harsh prison sentences.
To win approval for a three-year program that would likely cost
as much as $5 million to send extra federal prosecutors and agents
into Philadelphia, the NRA has agreed to lobby Congress for
support, and Rendell has agreed to what may be the more formidable
task, winning the backing of the Clinton administration.
Lynn Cutler, a senior White House official attending the
conference, predicted that the president would be receptive to
exploring the idea even though Heston sharply attacked him
politically and personally at the NRA convention.
Rendell also played a hand in creating the task force. At the
NRA convention, he and several other mayors, including Scott King
of Gary, Ind., and Clarence Harmon of St. Louis, met with
representatives of the gun industry and agreed they would spend six
months developing ideas aimed at reducing crimes committed with
guns but not infringing upon the rights of law-abiding citizens to
own guns.
 Many guns are stolen from dealers and distributors. The task
force plans to look into how security around guns in transit might
be tightened.
 While ammunition makers have already stopped producing
armor-piercing bullets and clips that hold more than 10 rounds, the
group will look for ways to buy back those that remain on gun store
shelves.
Richard Feldman, executive director of the American Shooting
Sports Council, which represents the gun industry's manufacturers,
distributors and retailers, followed Rendell to the microphone
Sunday and told the mayors that his organization was no less
frustrated with gun violence in America than they were.
But in response to a question from Mayor Jim Dailey of Little
Rock, Ark., Feldman cautioned against expecting too much from
technology. He said much of the technology under development would
render guns useless only for a moment and that five or 10 minutes
later, they could be discharged by someone other than the owner.
In an interview later, Feldman held his cautious position,
saying that any practical advances will take up to a decade to
refine and even then would likely be available only to law
enforcement agencies.
On Jan. 16 Starr's office arranged to have Linda Tripp meet
Monica Lewinsky at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Pentagon City.
Suddenly Starr's agents descended on Ms. Lewinsky. They questioned
her for many hours.
Ms. Lewinsky was represented by Francis Carter, who was
negotiating for her with Paula Jones' lawyers. Starr did not ask
Carter's consent to speak with his client, or even inform him.
Starr has also violated, wholesale, the rules against
prosecutors talking to the press about pending investigations. If
anyone doubted that, it has now been made unanswerably clear by
Steven Brill's meticulous marshaling of the evidence in the first
issue of Brill's Content.
Brill said the Starr and Bennett talks with the press violated
Rule 6e of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which forbid
disclosure of grand-jury information. Starr argued in reply that
Rule 6e did not apply because he and his staff disclosed not
grand-jury testimony but information obtained elsewhere and
comments on it.
What a breathtaking assertion. It means that whenever anyone
disagrees with him, Starr has a right to break the rules and become
an unnamed source for some journalist ready to convey his version
of the story. In politics, that is called spinning.
We all know that prosecutors leak. But Starr has been so
sanctimonious, so insistent that he never leaks.
In a country whose vaunted cuisine has been largely the province
of men, the title of that book, Miss Mathiot's first, has a certain
ring of defiance, and no wonder.
Born in Paris in an era when women in France had far fewer
career choices than they do today, Miss Mathiot, who was chastising
the French cooking establishment as a sexist, male-dominated
bastion long after opportunities for women improved, chafed at the
restrictions from the beginning.
If she couldn't do anything else, at least she could cook, and
if anybody doubted her, it wasn't the generations of French
homemakers who turned her book into the bible of the French
kitchen.
Raised in an austere household headed by her father, a
Protestant minister, she was a brilliant student in secondary
school, becoming a disciple of Simone Weil, the ascetic philosopher
and mystic. But when she expressed an interest in studying
medicine, she was persuaded instead to take teaching courses at the
Sorbonne and eventually to specialize in the French version of home
economics as a more appropriate outlet for a woman than medicine.
She rose to the top of her academic field, becoming an inspector
general in the French homemaking academy before French education
authorities withdraw recognition of homemaking as an academic
discipline.
By her own account Miss Mathiot garnered a total of seven
marriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors on
religious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiot
considered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn't
and bowed to her family's wishes.
After she established a life and career away from her family,
the proposals kept coming, but Miss Mathiot continued to reject
them, she said, though for reasons of her own.
If it was a father's stern will that forced her to become a home
economics teacher, it was another man's inspired whim and a bit
of luck that led her from the backwaters of education to the
front burner of French cuisine.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the
Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the
Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a
cookbook emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not
to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a
broad public fascination with the developments of modern science,
including advances in nutritional understanding.
When leading authorities on French cuisine turned him down,
Michel proposed the project to the head of a local college's
science department, who also turned him down but set off a chain of
recommendations that finally led Michel to the 23-year-old Miss
Mathiot, who said yes.
Her book, which included 2,000 recipes covering the canon of
French cuisine from lobster bisque to crepe suzette, was an
immediate sensation and paved the way for sequels, among them books
on bread, pastry and even camping-trips cooking.
In addition to emphasizing nutrition, Miss Mathiot's books
appealed to family cooks because they showed how to keep food costs
down while remaining true to the spirit of French cooking.
A woman who presided over what she saw as a kitchen with
millions of stoves, Miss Mathiot, who leaves no immediate
survivors, never took anything for granted.
Anyone following a cake recipe, for example, might think the end
had been reached with the instruction to remove the cake from the
oven, but Miss Mathiot, mindful of the distractions of a triumphant
moment, would have one more instruction: Turn off the oven.
He knows that they know much more than anyone about the
penetration of the White House by Asian fronts for Chinese
intelligence. They have all the details about Indonesia's Riady
family's long-term investment in his career, and probably of
instructions to influence his post-election change of trade policy.
Clinton must assume it is in China's interest to provide an
escape hatch for 50 fleeing witnesses, to deny being the source of
millions in campaign contributions and to keep secret Democratic
money laundering done by Hong Kong and Macao banks. China will want
to conceal from the Justice Department and Congress the illegal
donations to, and policy penetration of, the White House and DNC.
In obstructing any investigation, the interests of China run
parallel to those of this compromised U.S. president. Both Clinton
and the Chinese want nothing further to come out. Accept, if you
wish, the protestations of Clinton defenders that his campaign
organization was duped by John Huang, Charlie Trie and Maria Hsia,
and was ignorant of the source of the Asian funds solicited from
Johnny Chung. Buy, if you like, the notion that the payments had
nothing to do with flip-flops on trade and the technology-transfer
triumph over the Pentagon by anything-goes Commerce.
Would they use this illicit leverage to gain a concession? Of
course not; Chinese diplomacy can be exquisitely subtle. No winks
of understanding will be needed.
In this charade, Clinton will formally ask the Chinese to
cooperate with the Congress and the Department of Justice, and
China's Jiang will formally promise to help. Perhaps an expendable
non-official middleman will be designated to take a gentle fall,
helping Janet Reno to avoid having to seek independent counsel. And
the relieved Clinton will owe Jiang a big one.
In light of his personal negotiating difficulty, and recognizing
the need for the U.S. to exchange summit visits with a major power,
what can we reasonably ask our president to do?
2. On arrival, don't waste your mandatory human-rights message
on the accompanying press corps. Instead, insist on making it a
major theme of your live broadcast-telecast to the Chinese people,
and be sure the interpreter is our man. Meet and be photographed
with authentic dissidents and offer to host a White House meeting
between Jiang and the Dalai Lama.
Finally, let Jiang know that the next U.S. president might not
be so vulnerable to revelations of Chinese manipulation, and will
not forget any advantage taken of this one.
Baseball convention has been turned on its ear, but the game
continues to thrive in spite of, or precisely because of, these
innovations.
Over the next four nights in Southern California, a clamorous
statement will be made for the continuance of still another
wrinkle: interleague play.
It used to be that the area's fans could harbor only the
faintest hope of a Freeway World Series between the Dodgers and
Angels. During the first 36 years of these teams' co-tenancy of the
region, it never had the slightest glimmer of fruition.
But interleague play, launched as a two-year experiment last
season, delivered the next best thing: games between the Dodgers
and Angels that actually meant something. And the fans responded
about as expected.
Over the next four nights, the teams will participate in a
home-and-home exchange two games in Anaheim, beginning tonight,
followed by two in Dodger Stadium and officials from both clubs
say they are expecting robust crowds throughout.
For the game's players, who will vote later this summer on
whether to continue interleague play, it presents an unmistakable
message: This thing is good for business.
It does, indeed, sell tickets. Throughout the major leagues,
last year's interleague games represented a 20 percent attendance
boost over the averages for intraleague play. This season's first,
brief burst of interleague action, two weeks ago, reflected hikes
of 15 percent.
Locally, the numbers last year were dramatic. The Angels
averaged 20,953 for American League games and 29,152 for six
interleague contests (a 39 percent increase), and for two home
games with the Dodgers they logged their largest and fourth-largest
gatherings of the year.
The Dodgers drew an average of 40,320 for National League games
and 47,019 for eight interleague dates (a 17 percent boost). They
actually drew better for Seattle, Texas and Oakland than they did
for the Angels, but their average for two games with the Angels
(43,691) certainly wasn't shabby.
The number of miniseries has been reduced the Angels have 17
this year, as opposed to 26 last year; the Dodgers have 12 this
year, compared with 25 in '97 but the issue remains a serious
stumbling block for the players' approval, said union chief Donald
Fehr.
Meanwhile, baseball mulls over additional modifications to
interleague play, some of which could be reflected in the new
schedule.
One option, which could drastically reduce the number of
two-game series, would involve teams facing a limited number of
teams from an opposing division. In the west, for example, the
Dodgers might play only Seattle and the Angels one time around, and
catch Oakland and Texas in the next season.
Another would involve a rotating, three-year tour of the
interleague divisions: West one year, East the next, Central the
next.
Despite its popularity, interleague play is certain to generate
its share of controversy. If the Chicago Cubs and San Francisco
Giants are pursuing the same wild card, for example, an argument
likely will arise that the Cubs are facing much weaker opponents in
the AL Central than are the Giants in the AL West.
But if baseball elects to continue on this course, it will
simply have to weather the interleague quirks.
LYON, France The Iranian players shook hands with the
Americans before Sunday night's game, handed them white flowers
symbolizing peace and even posed together for a group picture. But
friendship extended only so far. There was a soccer game to win,
and not only did Iran prevail, 2-1, it also knocked the United
States out of the World Cup.
If the outcome was unexpected by many, so was the political
component of the match. A vigorous protest was launched not against
the Great Satan, but rather against Iran's own Islamic regime.
Thousands of middle-class Iranian expatriates smuggled T-shirts
into Gerland Stadium showing the pictures of two leaders of a
Paris-based opposition group called the National Council of
Resistance.
French police rushed into the stands several times to confiscate
banners and pictures celebrating the two dissident leaders, but new
banners and pictures kept popping up like mushrooms. The opposition
group's influence is considered to be limited inside Iran, but the
size of the protest was undoubtedly an embarrassment to the Islamic
regime.
In the game's most surreal moment, the protesters waved their
T-shirts and banners jubilantly at halftime as the public-address
system played the Macarena. About 75 French policemen in riot gear
marched to one side of the field 10 minutes before the game
concluded, but the Iranian fans left peacefully and ecstatically.
This was the first time that Iran and the United States had met
in soccer competition and the first time that Iran ever won a game
in two trips to the World Cup. The countries exchanged visits by
their Olympic-style wrestling teams this year, and have
participated in the Summer Olympic Games, but this was the most
visible head-to-head sporting event between the two countries since
the Islamic revolution in 1979.
The match was played several days after President Clinton called
for reconciliation with Iran after 19 years of enmity between the
two countries, and it followed a call in January by President
Mohammad Khatami of Iran for cultural exchanges between the two
countries. In victory on Sunday night, Iranian players said it was
significant to have defeated the Americans.
In Tehran, thousands of celebrating fans took to the streets,
some of them women without their scarves, despite efforts by the
Islamic regime to make sure that the celebration was not as
vociferous as it had been last November when Iran qualified for the
World Cup for the first time in 20 years. Political experts said
that the conservative clerics who hold power in Iran were
threatened by the joyful outburst of the people last fall, which
they could not control.
On Sunday night, restaurants in Tehran were forced to close at 9
p.m., plans to show the game on giant outdoor television screens
were canceled and anti-riot police and plainclothes police set up
roadblocks around the city to make sure that the celebration was
not too forceful. Still, the Iranian players said they knew the
ordinary people of Iran would be exultant.
While Iran (1-1) is sure to have its hopes of advancing to the
second round dashed on Thursday when it faces powerful Germany, at
least it can dream. The United States (0-2) will now play a
meaningless game on Thursday against Yugoslavia.
If the United States was a serious soccer country, Coach Steve
Sampson might have lost his job on Sunday night, as coaches from
Saudi Arabia and South Korea did in recent days. But Rothenberg
said Sampson would coach the team against Yugoslavia. Sampson made
five lineup changes on Sunday night, scrapping the 3-6-1 formation
for a 3-5-2 with Brian McBride and Roy Wegerle at forwards and Tab
Ramos, Frankie Hejduk and Joe-Max Moore assuming roles in midfield.
Sampson wanted assertive play after Monday's tentative loss to
Germany, and on Sunday night the Americans hit the goalpost twice
and the crossbar once, but they could not score a goal. In fact,
they came forward so aggressively and took so many risks that they
were left completely out of shape on defense.
In the 40th minute, with Claudio Reyna giving him far too much
room, Iran's Hamid Estili headed a ball over the head of American
goalkeeper Kasey Keller to give his team a 1-0 lead. As the crowd
of 35,500, made largely of Iranian fans, erupted, Estili kissed the
ground in celebration.
Six minutes from the game's conclusion, Mehdi Mahdavikia
sprinted past the disheveled American defense and blasted another
goal past Keller. McBride provided an inconsequential goal on a
header for the Americans in the 87th minute.
Today, as about 2 million tourists each year bustle down the
mile-long stretch of seafood bars, candy stores and souvenir shops
that line the historic row, any such fragile grub would be unlikely
to slither its way into open air on its own.
The noise of honky-tonks, whorehouses, crowded groceries,
saloons and flophouses has long been replaced by the sound of
cameras taking pictures, the laughter of children and the din of
construction jackhammers. Where sardine fishing and canning once
supplied a vibrant economy, tourism now pulls in 50 percent of the
city's annual revenue.
It is the very success of Monterey's flourishing tourist
industry, supported in large part by the Monterey Bay Aquarium,
that concerns literary buffs and preservationists. They say that
new development, including a four-story shopping plaza planned for
the center of the row, threatens the last vestiges of the old life.
On June 15, the National Trust for Historic Preservation agreed,
and named Cannery Row as one of the nation's 11 most-endangered
historic places. The National Trust is a private nonprofit
organization headquartered in Washington that was chartered by
Congress to monitor historic sites.
Albert said the city recently purchased Doc Rickett's Lab, which
appears in Steinbeck's book and is one of two historically
designated buildings on the row, for $400,000. He said the city
also spent nearly $2 million to make the new aquarium maintain the
aesthetic feel of a cannery that once stood in its place. In
addition, Albert said the city plans to add markers to point out
important buildings throughout the row, and has begun a survey of
81 structures in the area to determine if they are historical.
Although the city does not own much of the property on the row,
Albert said that officials are trying to balance conservation
efforts with private property interests by offering tax incentives
to developers to preserve the existing structures or to design
buildings that retain the texture of the old canning district.
Cannery Row first came to the attention of the National Trust
for Historic Preservation last year, during a battle over the fate
of the San Xavier Warehouse, one of the few remaining buildings
with a direct link to the canning industry. City officials deemed
it a safety hazard, and property owners wanted it gone, but local
preservationists held firm. In the end, the city ordered property
owners not to demolish the warehouse, but to take it apart piece by
piece so that parts of it could be re-used in construction.
Frustrated by the city's planning process during the battle,
Neal Hotelling, one of the preservationists, nominated Cannery Row
for National Trust's annual listing of endangered places.
Hotelling wants the city to zone Cannery Row as a historic
district, so that new construction would be considered against the
historic value of existing structures. He would also like to see
several of the large empty lots on the row filled with new
buildings, to bring back the original sense of the row a long
continuous strip of businesses along the seaside.
In the meantime, he and other preservationists want to save
several important structures from demolition. One is Stohan's
Gallery, a small arts and crafts gallery built in the 1940s as a
fish-processing plant, which was bought by developers last year.
Daryl Stokes, 48, who ran Stohan's for 20 years before he was
evicted last October to make way for development, said that in that
time he has seen about 40 percent of the strip replaced with new
development.
On another blazing, draining day, with the temperature 98
degrees in the stands and 114 on the track, Jones, a 22-year-old
Californian, won her third national title in two days as the U.S.
outdoor track and field championships ended Sunday.
Jones won the 100 meters and the long jump on Saturday night and
the 200 meters Sunday. In the 200, she downshifted in the last 15
meters and still won by 6 meters in 22.24 seconds into a slight
wind.
Then she smiled, relieved that she had completed the first
100-200-long jump triple in women's competition in the nationals
since Stella Walsh did it 50 years ago. In men's competition, the
last to do it was Carl Lewis in 1983.
Jackie is Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who has won Olympic gold medals
in the heptathlon and the long jump. She did not compete here but
plans to be in the Goodwill Games next month in Uniondale, N.Y.
Jones will be there, too, in the 100 and 200.
Jones was voted the outstanding female athlete of the
championships. The men's honor went to John Godina, who on Saturday
night completed the men's first discus throw-shot-put double in 43
years.
The best performance of the meet came Sunday afternoon before a
crowd of 6,826 at Tad Gormley Stadium. Bryan Bronson, a 25-year-old
Rice graduate, won the men's 400-meter hurdles by 6 meters in 47.03
seconds. That was the fastest ever on American soil and the third
fastest in history behind Kevin Young's 46.78 in 1992 and Edwin
Moses' 47.02 in 1983.
In a meet limited to U.S. citizens, Bronson and three others ran
the fastest times in the world this year. The others were Kim
Batten in the women's 400-meter hurdles (53.61 seconds), Jerome
Young in the men's 400-meter dash (44.09 seconds) and Reggie Torian
in the men's 110-meter hurdles (13.03 seconds). Young, a surprise
winner, is a junior at St. Augustine's, a Division II college in
Raleigh, N.C.
Batten won her race for the fifth consecutive year, Connie
Price-Smith won the women's shot-put for the seventh straight year
(61 feet 3 inches) and Charles Austin won the men's high jump for
the fourth straight year (7-6{).
The heat slowed the distance runners throughout the meet.
Sunday, Pascal Dobert won the men's 3,000-meter steeplechase in
8:33.91, the slowest winning time since 1979. But for athletes like
Dobert, trying to move up to the big time, winning was enough.
While many young athletes made their marks over the three days,
some older ones did all right, too. Take the men's 800-meter final,
which Mark Everett had won six times in the 10 previous years and
Johnny Gray six times in the 13 previous years. This time, the
29-year-old Everett beat his 38-year-old rival by 4 feet in
1:45.28. Gray's perpetual smile remained.
Al Campanis, the Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off a
furor and shattered his career by suggesting that blacks were
unqualified for high-level baseball jobs, died at home Sunday of
coronary artery disease. He was 81.
Campanis could look back on 44 years in the Dodgers'
organization. A native of Greece brought to New York City as a
youngster by his mother, he graduated from New York University,
served in the Navy and then embarked on a long and successful
tenure in baseball.
After a brief infield stint with Brooklyn in 1943, he had played
shortstop for the Montreal Royals in 1946 when Robinson broke into
organized baseball as the Dodgers farm team's second baseman.
Campanis once recalled how he had thrown his glove down and
challenged a base runner to do battle after the player tried to
rough up Robinson.
Later, Campanis managed in the Dodgers' farm system, served as
scouting director, followed the team from Brooklyn to Los Angeles
and, beginning in 1968, had been vice president of player
personnel. He brought Sandy Koufax and Fernando Valenzuela to the
Dodgers and oversaw decisions that shaped one of baseball's most
successful teams.
Even then, nearly four decades later, Campanis turned to
Rickey's thoughts for guidance, having transcribed those recordings
to cassette tapes he kept in battered blue and white shoe boxes.
When he interviewed Campanis, Koppel put nostalgia aside. He
asked him why baseball had no black managers, general managers or
owners and suggested that the answer was prejudice.
Minutes after Campanis began speaking, the phones at ABC started
ringing, with viewers denouncing him for racist statements. The
next day, Robinson's widow, Rachel, Hank Aaron and baseball
commissioner Peter Ueberroth expressed dismay.
Campanis is survived by his sons, George and Jim, who caught for
the Dodgers, Kansas City and Pittsburgh, five grandchildren and
three great-grandchildren.
In the aftermath of the Campanis furor, Ueberroth was prompted
to make hiring of minority-group members in baseball a priority.
Major League Baseball created an affirmative-action program and
hired Harry Edwards, a black sociology professor at the University
of California, to identify black and Hispanic former players who
could work in baseball.
WASHINGTON After her testimony in the grand jury room, Gloria
Cabe was left with a memory of such prosecutorial zeal in the
performance of Jackie Bennett Jr. that four years later she still
finds it chilling for its unfettered aggressiveness.
But one witness's grand-jury attack dog can be his fellow
prosecutors' champion thoroughbred in the noir world of
public-integrity indictment and prosecution gunning for
politicians and public officials, in laymen's parlance.
Now, still fervidly on the president's case as it veers into
Clinton's behavior at the White House, Bennett suddenly finds
himself a lightning rod for anti-Starr critics and an embattled
stalwart to his career colleagues in the Department of Justice.
Critics are raising ethical questions about Bennett's role as
broker, one openly confirmed by Starr, in dealing with news media
interested in learning investigation secrets. At the same time,
supporters are counting on Bennett to break the logjam in the
Monica Lewinsky case in leading negotiations with her new lawyers
for a possible deal on testifying about her relationship with
President Clinton.
Friends and colleagues of Bennett, 41, insist he is only as
tough as he must be to do the right job. He is no mere eminence
grise in Starr's investigation of the president, they insist, but
rather a canny, multifaceted court performer exhilarated by his job
and, they maintain, as fair as he has to be.
This image of Jackie Bennett as more subtle than blunt is hard
for his latest adversaries at the White House to believe as they
watch him run a team of unyielding prosecutors here before the
federal grand jury.
Bennett relies on good-cop, bad-cop skills honed in 13 years in
the courtrooms and back rooms of prosecution. Physically and
professionally imposing his position was offensive tackle at
Hanover College in Indiana Bennett is a laureate prosecutor with
a booming voice, a standout in the dicey specialty of routing out
corrupt politicians.
He won the attorney general's John Marshall Award as the top
federal prosecutor of 1994 for convicting Albert Bustamante, a
former representative from Texas, of racketeering and bribery, a
victory that has inspired a certain sharp-edged respect among
professional politicians.
His Texas foray, made as senior trial lawyer in the Justice
Department's public-integrity section, was just the fiery foundry
that Bennett needed for his job as Starr's deputy.
Bennett can be no less disarming socially. He and his wife,
Cindy, have four sons, ages 1 to 8, and their family became a
centerpiece of sorts in the temporary encampment of the Whitewater
teams in Little Rock. Friends prized a relaxed barbecue with the
Bennetts after a long day of tracking Bill Clinton.
Without fanfare but with potentially far-reaching significance
for the semiconductor industry, IBM has begun the industry's first
large-scale production of a type of chip that may reduce prices and
improve performance and portability for cellular phones and other
wireless communications devices.
The chips are based on technology developed by IBM Corp. in the
early 1980s for mainframe computers and redirected toward consumer
products. It combines the standard silicon used throughout the chip
industry with germanium, a metallic element that is so efficient a
conductor of electricity that it may reduce the power consumption
of portable devices as much as 50 percent.
The use of germanium, which is relatively easy for chip makers
to work with and is well suited to the electronics of
high-frequency radio communications, enabled IBM engineers to
combine wireless communications components and silicon digital
transistors on a single chip.
By consolidating equipment and capabilities that typically
require several chips or components, makers of cellular telephones
and other consumer products can reduce the size and complexity of
those products. Industry experts say it may eventually be possible
to create the entire electronics of a cellular phone on a single
chip.
Other applications may include home receivers for
direct-broadcast satellite television and various kinds of portable
devices for wireless connections to the Internet. Many analysts
also expect silicon germanium chips, because of their high-speed
processing ability, to play a key role in future network-switching
equipment for routing all sorts of Internet traffic.
The components market into which IBM will be selling the chips
is now estimated at $540 million a year, but the company predicted
that its own piece of the market would exceed $1 billion annually
within five years.
Initial customers for the IBM chips, which the company began
producing in large quantities last week at an updated plant in
Burlington, Vt., are Hughes Electronics, Harris Semiconductor,
National Semiconductor, Northern Telecom and Tektronix. All five
companies have also licensed IBM's technology to incorporate into
their own product designs. IBM said it had two dozen additional
customers, which it was not yet ready to identify.
Although IBM declined to discuss pricing for the new chips,
industry analysts estimated that it might sell for $10 and replace
a cluster of components now costing as much as $100.
Further in the future may lie more speculative but potentially
vast markets for applications like collision-avoidance radar for
automobiles. Such systems, long considered impractical because of
cost, may be within the reach of inexpensive
silicon-germanium-based devices.
The components of the IBM chip that are based on germanium
involve analog technology meaning that they convert sound, light
or physical motion into electrical patterns analogous to the
original source. Analog chips are required in digital devices like
cellular phones to convert the human voice into an electronic
signal that a digital chip can translate into the binary-code data
of ones and zeroes used in modern communications networks.
IBM executives say that as many as 50 other companies are
pursuing similar technology, but industry analysts agree that IBM
has taken a clear lead in silicon germanium chips.
Until now, gallium arsenide has been the most promising material
for extremely high-speed computing and communications applications.
But semiconductors based on it have been expensive and difficult to
manufacture, confining its use mainly to high-performance computing
and limited consumer applications.
Initial versions of IBM's silicon germanium technology were
developed in the early 1980s by Bernard Meyerson and other
scientists at the company's T.J. Watson Research Laboratory in
Yorktown Heights, N.Y., who were seeking a way to speed the
performance of mainframe computers.
By the early '90s, though, IBM had altered the technology course
of its mainframes, basing them instead on an inexpensive chip
process known as CMOS, for complementary metal oxide semiconductor.
So Meyerson and his team redirected their silicon germanium work
toward a new class of chips that would combine all the functions of
analog communications equipment and digital computers.
Researchers had long known that by adding tiny amounts of
germanium to silicon, it would be possible to achieve notable
increases in the speed at which transistors direct, or switch,
electrons through a chip's circuitry. Because of differences in the
sizes of silicon and germanium atoms, however, semiconductors made
from composites of the two materials typically failed.
Meyerson's solution was to find a relatively low-temperature
technique for creating a thin film of germanium that could be
successfully bonded to silicon.
The result was a semiconductor manufacturing process that
combined the benefits of low-cost silicon and ultra-high-speed
germanium.
SAN FRANCISCO Maybe this is why Lee Janzen had downplayed the
potential depression when a sickening Sunday 79 had cost him The
Players Championship in March. Maybe this is why he had more
respect for his year than the statistics had shown.
On Sunday at The Olympic Club, the 33-year-old Janzen earned a
giant award for both hard work and good faith. Capitalizing on an
off day by his Orlando neighbor, Payne Stewart, Janzen shot a
2-under-par 68 to win his second U.S. Open by one shot at even-par
280.
Stewart, who was trying for a wire-to-wire win, stumbled to a
4-over 74 and finished at 281. His chance to tie Janzen and force a
playoff Monday came and went at the 18th hole, when downhill
20-footer try for birdie slipped a few inches below the hole.
Janzen trailed by seven shots after three holes Sunday, with
bogeys on No. 2 and No. 3, but played solidly down the stretch,
birdieing the 13th and then parring in. When Stewart's putt missed,
he broke into tears with wife Beverly.
A par at the difficult 17th was a key for Janzen after making
two bogeys and a double-bogey there in previous rounds. Janzen
fired his shot to the 18th over the flag, then cautiously eased a
bending 20-footer to within three feet, and made it for par.
Janzen, who won the 1993 U.S. Open at Baltusrol by two strokes
over Stewart started the sunny, cool day five strokes behind the
man in the plus-fours. . In the event of a Stewart collapse, Janzen
was not the most logical choice to step up and take over. It
clearly was Tom Lehman, who played in the final group for the
fourth straight year, but again walked away without the major he so
desires. Lehman stomached a 75 and tied for fifth, six shots behind
Janzen.
Georgia Tech U.S. Amateur champion Matt Kuchar concluded with a
74 and tied for 14th at 9-over 289, earning a return trip to next
year's Open at Pinehurst.
Former Marietta, Ga. player Bob Tway finished third with a 73 at
284, a stroke ahead of Nick Price, who had a 73 for 285.
Washington's growing involvement in a brutal Latin American
guerrilla war echoes the opening stages of American intervention in
the conflict in El Salvador in the 1980s.
Diana Jean Schemo and Tim Golden reported in The Times earlier
this month that much of the aid the Pentagon is giving Colombia's
military to fight cocaine is being used instead to fight
guerrillas. American special-forces trainers now work in Colombia,
teaching the military such skills as jungle maneuvering and
psychological operations. While the level of support is far below
American aid to the Salvadoran military in the 1980s, the
administration is unwisely considering an increase.
As in El Salvador, American aid is going to an abusive and inept
army fighting vicious Marxist guerrillas. The guerrillas kill
politicians and kidnap Americans. The military has strong ties to
paramilitary death squads, which massacre peasants and murder human
rights workers and left-wing politicians. Last year, 10 people a
day died in political murders. Seventy percent of the killings were
attributed to soldiers or paramilitaries.
Support for the army also undermines Colombia's precarious
civilian institutions. The military is defying a constitutional
court ruling to reform its justice system. Generals have openly
refused to obey presidential orders relating to peace.
The narco-guerrilla connection is disputed by many in the
Colombian government and the American State Department, who call it
a label invented by the Colombian military to allow them to use the
aid to fight guerrillas. Myles Frechette, the American ambassador
to Colombia until the end of 1997, publicly criticized the term,
and American intelligence services in 1996 concluded that the term
was far overblown. Ironically, there may be strong ties between the
paramilitaries and the traffickers. Colombia's investigative police
say Carlos Castano, a top paramilitary leader, heads a drug cartel.
As in El Salvador, peace talks are the only solution to a civil
war neither side can win. Colombians overwhelmingly endorsed talks
in a referendum last year, both candidates in the presidential
runoff election backed them, and previously recalcitrant guerrillas
are showing interest. Washington can best support the talks by
terminating its aid to a military that has undermined them. 
James Hormel, President Clinton's nominee to be ambassador to
Luxembourg, is opposed by a small group of Republican senators who
are looking smaller all the time.
It is not Hormel's credentials that are in question. An heir to
the Hormel meat-packing fortune, a former dean of the University of
Chicago Law School, he has given leadership and money to causes
that range from the San Francisco Symphony to Swarthmore College
and the Human Rights Campaign, the main political lobby for
homosexual rights.
Discrimination against people on the basis of their sexual
orientation is outlawed in Luxembourg and in all the other
countries in the European Union. It is illegal in San Francisco,
where Hormel lives, and in Washington except in such places as
Congress, where the Republican leadership has made a fetish of it
lately.
POCONO, Pa. With a lump in his throat and Jeff Gordon on his
rear bumper, Jeremy Mayfield beat down every challenge Sunday and
put victory No. 1 in his Winston Cup scrapbook.
The 29-year-old native of Owensboro, Ky. took the lead from his
hometown hero, Darrell Waltrip, on lap 180, and then had to hold
off Gordon over the final 21 laps, winning by a scant 0.341
seconds.
It was prophetic that that it would be Mayfield who went to
Victory Lane before teammate Rusty Wallace. Wallace lasted only 13
laps, victimized by a blown engine.
He had considerable good luck this week. He won $111,580,
including a $40,000 bonus from Winston for winning the race and
leading the Winston Cup points. With his victory, he increased his
points lead to 36 over second place Gordon and is 48 in front of
Jarrett.
He dominated this one, leading five times for 122 of the 200
laps. Only Dale Jarrett and Gordon led more than once under green
for a total of 43 laps. He was never more than 12th on restarts or
in harm's way during the nine cautions for 47 laps.
They are both students from Congo who fled to the United States,
certain they would have been killed in the political turmoil at
home. Bakam Mimpongo, 21, was caught at New York's Kennedy
International Airport, trying to enter with fake papers. Bisinwa
Borumbi, 22, stowed away in a cargo ship and was seized in
Jacksonville, Fla.
Each gave similar accounts of persecution, of paramilitary
groups and rebels ravaging villages and taking prisoners, of their
desperate need for asylum.
But in the United States, their paths have sharply diverged. Ms.
Mimpongo spent five months and 10 days in a federal detention
center in New York City last year before being granted asylum.
Borumbi, detained in Miami in February of this year, was freed on
parole after three weeks, but his case has not yet been resolved.
Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees point to the
different treatment of cases like these as a sign that federal
immigration laws are applied unevenly throughout the nation.
Important decisions from how long it takes to review an asylum
seeker's case to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detained
for months seem to hinge more on the number of beds available at
a detention center than on a cohesive national policy.
The inconsistencies in granting parole are dizzying, said
Charles Wheeler, who monitors the cases of asylum seekers
nationwide as the supervisor of the detention project at the
Catholic Legal Immigration Network, a private advocacy group in San
Francisco.
In El Paso, Texas, he said, many asylum seekers have to post
bond before being paroled. In Los Angeles and New Jersey, asylum
seekers are usually released, but only if family members will
sponsor them. In Miami, virtually everyone is released. In New
York, virtually no one is.
A recently released study and interviews with more than a dozen
lawyers and their clients confirm Wheeler's findings. While some
asylum seekers are allowed to argue their cases shortly after
arrival, others languish in detention for months, sometimes
surrounded by convicted criminals in county jails. Some are
released after posting bond as low as $5,000, or simply by
providing the address where they plan to reside.
While some women with children are released immediately, others
are held for months, separated from their children. Lawyers said
that clients with identical cases might be treated differently from
one month to the next.
Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say that these
irregularities are an especially urgent issue now because the
swiftness of deportations under the new law makes the need for a
good, timely defense more critical than ever.
Under the old law, people who requested asylum were allowed to
stay in the country while their cases were heard by immigration
judges. If the judges ruled against them, they could appeal to the
Board of Immigration Appeals and then the federal courts, a process
that could take a year or more.
Now, detainees are under pressure to prepare a compelling case
quickly and lawyers say this is a difficult task for people
behind bars. Instead of freely searching for lawyers and preparing
their cases, detainees who do not speak English or know the laws of
the United States must often wait for lawyers to spot them and
visit them at detention centers, usually out-of-the-way places that
resemble jails and afford little privacy.
There is no way of knowing precisely how many people have been
affected adversely by the law, because the federal government does
not keep statistics of how many people who go through the new
procedures are denied asylum. But asylum seekers are always a tiny
percentage of the hundreds of thousands people who seek entry into
the United States every year.
From August of last year through the end of January, for
example, 1,300 new arrivals expressed a fear to return home. Of
those, 1,066 were sent to detention centers; the rest were
deported.
Karen Musalo, a co-director of the study, said that asylum
seekers sometimes mothers and their children are routinely kept
in detention in New York for months until a judge hears their case.
That is what happened to Sivajini Kadambarathnam, 35, and her
13-year-old son, Rajakumar. The two were stopped on March 12, upon
arrival at Kennedy Airport without documents from Sri Lanka, and
ordered detained, her immigration records show. But because no
children are allowed in the Queens detention center, Rajakumar was
sent to a center for juveniles in Miami.
Immigration officials said they were willing to release the boy,
but not the mother, to sponsors. But the sponsor would not take the
boy by himself, so the two remained in detention but separated, one
of her lawyers, Eileen Collins Bretz, said. Mrs. Kadambarathnam was
granted political asylum and released June 2, after nearly three
months in detention. Her son had been released a day earlier.
In Miami, where the influx of Haitian and Central American
immigrants seldom lets up, the Krome detention center routinely
releases asylum seekers who can show they have a place to stay,
said Stacey Taeuber, a pro-bono lawyer who works with detainees.
The policy was different last year: to be released on parole,
asylum seekers needed to post a $5,000 bond.
One of Ms. Taeuber's clients was Gabriel Jaime Castano, 28, a
Colombian immigrant who said he had no intention of seeking
political asylum when he arrived at Miami International Airport in
January with a visitor's visa. A farmer from near Medellin, Castano
said he had gone to Miami to escape his country's violence for a
few weeks. He was tired of paying off both the army and the
guerrillas with 20 live chickens a month to stay alive, he
said.
Immigration officers detained him because they did not believe
he intended only to visit, Castano said. After consulting with
lawyers there, he said he realized that asking for political asylum
would get him out of detention faster than sticking to his original
claim.
That tactic would probably not have worked in New York. When the
Wackenhut detention center fills up, asylum seekers are sent to a
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., or to the York County Prison,
in York, Pa., said Mark Thorn, a spokesman from the INS office in
New York.
Judy Epstein, a spokeswoman from the Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society, said that one of the agency's clients a 20-year-old
woman from Ghana who has been detained for seven months was
recently transferred to Pennsylvania. The woman, Swaibatu Mohammed,
told the agency that five other women were moved with her.
In years to come, the INS intends to detain even more people as
it builds more detention facilities, said Bergeron. In doing so, he
said, the agency would be following the mandate of Congress, which
since 1996 has allocated $205.3 million to add 7,364 spaces to the
agency's current detention capacity and 882 positions to its
payroll.
Already, the INS has 15,000 beds in nine detention facilities,
prisons and an array of local jails around the country, an 80
percent increase from the number of beds available just three years
ago. Yet, Bergeron said, to accommodate all the people the law
mandates be detained those who seek entry into the United States
with no papers or with fraudulent documents the agency will have
to double its current detention capacity.
TEHRAN, Iran In a high-stakes political battle filled with
recriminations and rage, Iran's Parliament voted Sunday to dismiss
one of the closest allies of Mohammad Khatami, the reform-minded
president.
Parliament is controlled by Khatami's enemies. Its action Sunday
is the most serious political setback to his presidency since his
landslide victory 13 months ago as well as graphic proof of
Khatami's limited room for maneuver in Iran's Islamic Republic.
The vote came just three days after Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright warmly praised Khatami and the direction in which he seems
to be taking the country, and she held out the prospect of eventual
normalization of relations with Iran.
The vote, 137-117 with 11 abstentions, came in a secret ballot
after several hours of impassioned debate in which Noori was
accused of arrogantly dismissing officials who did not share his
politics, fostering an unstable economic environment and putting
the country's security at risk.
The vote was as much an attack against Khatami as it was against
Noori, and it is part of a wider campaign led by conservative
members of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to the
president.
The parliamentary session was broadcast live on radio and later
on television as millions of Iranian viewers were awaiting the live
broadcast of the World Cup soccer match between the United States
and Iran at 11:30 p.m. Both opponents and supporters of Noori
stepped up to the lectern in the center of the modest parliamentary
hall to air their views.
Noori was reflecting the position voiced repeatedly by Khatami
and his supporters that what is at stake is nothing less than the
soul of the nation. According to this line of thinking, unless Iran
becomes freer at home and more open to the outside world, it will
lose the allegiance of the generation that has been born in the 19
years since the monarchy was overthrown.
But Khatami is fiercely opposed by those clerics and their
followers who believe that the core beliefs of the revolution are
being sacrificed.
Nateq-Noori had been the front-runner for president and lost in
an upset to Khatami.
Noori, 49, a mid-ranking cleric from Isfahan, has been an
outspoken proponent of Khatami's commitment to impose a rule of law
and has come under fire for issuing permits to allow groups to
conduct peaceful demonstrations.
Under the constitution, the country's spiritual leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and not the president, controls the
judiciary, as well as the military, radio and television and the
intelligence and security services.
But Khatami has encouraged Noori to challenge decisions by the
judiciary particularly the arrest of Tehran Mayor Gholamhossein
Karabaschi, who is on trial on corruption and embezzlement charges.
The trial is broadcast on television in the evenings.
Noori has also strongly supported Karabaschi and has openly
criticized the chief of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammed Yazdi,
for arresting the mayor in April without telling Noori.
In another sign that he had no intention of surrendering to
Parliament, Khatami appointed Mostafa Tajzadeh, a deputy minister
of the interior, as the acting minister. Tajzadeh, a staunch
supporter of the president, was also criticized Sunday by some
members of Parliament.
LYONS, France When Americans and Iranians exchange gifts and
mingle on the field for an unusual mass photograph before the game,
the emphasis should not be on embarrassment. The players made the
gestures of good will, so why torture the American players by
talking of national humiliation?
Iran beat the United States, 2-1, in a soccer game Sunday night.
This is a big shock only if one is caught up in the history between
the two nations. Actually, the United States was essentially an
innocent bystander in all the political maneuvering Sunday night.
The action in the stands involved thousands of Iranian exiles
wearing T-shirts supporting an opposition movement, and trying to
wave banners. This was not a case of Iran against the Great Satan
in the stands, nor was it that way on the playing field.
There was no political zealousness in the eyes of the Iranian
players on the field, no holy mission in their faces or their
actions. In fact, they came out tentatively.
People back home in the United States might expect one-sidedness
in basketball, the way Charles Barkley toyed with the Angolans in
the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, but this is soccer, not the
first or second or third American sport of choice. The Yanks were
neither opportunistic nor intelligent nor lucky Sunday night, and
now they have no chance to advance in this World Cup, which is a
setback from 1994.
The Iranians played hard, and they caught a few breaks on the
goalkeeper's best friend, the perpendicular bars that stopped three
American shots. Any way you look at it, the Iranians won a World
Cup game for the first time in the nation's history, and people
celebrated in the streets of Lyons.
Most of the people celebrating were exiles, people who had left
Iran for one reason or another and are now making their way quite
nicely in this materialistic world. They could afford the air fares
and the hotel bills and the street ticket prices to get into this
game and wear T-shirts protesting the current Iranian regime. And
when the ball went in the net two times, the expatriates celebrated
along with their Iranian brothers and sisters back home. The
victory united them. Underdogs always cheer.
For all that, the Yanks knew they were losing a historic game,
and falling right out of contention, like South Korea and Saudi
Arabia before them. In the past day, those two nations dismissed
their coaches with a game to play. There will be no such
shenanigans from the American soccer federation, but it is clear
that the Steve Sampson era will end after the Yugoslavia game on
Thursday.
A new lineup, new combinations, old guys, unproven guys,
questionable squad cuts, mass benchings of old reliables all of
this set a mood under Sampson these past couple of weeks.
Sunday night, Iran rushed on the attack, and Hamid Estili
flicked an artful header into the corner of the goal, outjumping
Tab Ramos, all of 5 feet 7 inches, and Claudio Reyna, 5-10, neither
of whom is a defender.
Going into this World Cup, the operative theory was that height
would play a big part in the Iran game, but here was a 5-9 player
matched against two of the smaller Yanks who should normally not
have been back there defending the goal in the first place.
The defensive scramble was symptomatic of a team with little
character or leadership. The Iranians played hard and they played
resourcefully, and when it was over, they sought out the Americans
for the normal sporting gestures. One Iranian player walked half
the length of the field to muss the hair of Reyna, who was
obviously stunned. Several players exchanged shirts on the field,
an open sign of sporting acceptance by two nations that have had
their differences.
Perhaps the gestures will lead to warmer relations between the
nations. For the Americans, the shirts will be a memento of a
historic loss that will hurt for a long time, not for the politics,
but for the end of hope.
SAN FRANCISCO While nobody was looking. While all attention
was on a pair two twosomes ahead. While those who ride darkhorses
were saddling up Tom Lehman. While the old Olympic Club course
stood firm in defense of its harsh reputation. Lee Janzen slipped
in the side door and won the U.S. Open. Payne Stewart had held the
lead for three days, and the lead in a U.S. Open can become a heavy
load.
Tom Watson had predicted the winning score would be over par. He
was close. All Janzen had to do was shoot even par for 72 holes,
two rounds of 73 to go with 66 Friday and a closing 68, one of only
five rounds under par Sunday. Of all the names on the leaderboard,
only three showed gains for the day, Janzen, the champion, Jeff
Sluman with a 68 and David Duval with a 69.
This is Janzen's second Open championship, and the fellow he
thwarted was the same fellow he thwarted at Baltusrol in 1993.
Stewart had a putting chance on the last green, 25 feet downhill on
the slippery 18th. Eleven years ago, when Scott Simpson won here,
Watson left a 25-foot uphill putt two inches short. This time,
Stewart's putt drifted three inches below the hole.
He wears plus-fours, flat caps, startling colors and chews gum.
He lights up the horizon. Janzen is a fellow of placid appearance,
makes no waves, stirs no emotions. He has been a solid, steady
player since he first hit the PGA Tour in 1990, a rookie out of
Florida Southern College. He came out of Minnesota, lived awhile in
Maryland, now lives in the same area as Stewart in the Orlando
area.
This was the eighth tournament he has won, and makes up by a
whopping lot for a couple that got away this year. He made a
serious run in The Players Championship and faded, had the lead in
Houston and dropped out of sight. He hadn't won since the Sprint
International three years ago. He has made a more than average
contribution to U.S. Open history. When he beat Stewart at
Baltusrol, his score of 272 tied the championship record that Jack
Nicklaus has set there in 1980. It still stands.
Olympic has a habit of delivering champions from out of the
ranks. An obscure Jack Fleck won a playoff from Ben Hogan in 1955.
Bill Casper beat Arnold Palmer in 1963 and Simpson's winning set
off no national celebrations. So Janzen sat there looking about as
surprised as anybody, surely as thankful as those just happy to
have a winner rather than a playoff.
BOGOTA, Colombia With horns blaring and banners fluttering
from car windows, Colombians voted a resounding end on Sunday to
the scandal-ridden presidency of Ernesto Samper, electing as his
successor the man who first accused Samper of accepting money from
drug dealers.
The election of Andres Pastrana, the Conservative former mayor
of Bogota, over Horacio Serpa of the Liberal Party, Samper's
interior minister and most loyal advocate, opens a new chapter in
Colombia's relations with the United States, which have boiled over
with bitterness and suspicion during Samper's four years in power.
The unusually strong showing of Pastrana who won a higher
number of votes than any previously elected president and a high
turnout came in sharp contrast to public opinion surveys, all of
which had shown the two candidates virtually tied for the
presidency and had predicted a low voter turnout.
Rangel predicted that relations with the United States would
improve dramatically with Sunday's election of Pastrana, probably
entering a new era of closeness and cooperation between the two
countries.
Under Samper, who was acused of accepting $6 million from drug
dealers in his election campaign and who was stripped of his U.S.
visa two years ago, U.S. officials cultivated ties with other
individuals or agencies like the chief of police, Gen. Rosso Jose
Serrano while largely avoiding direct encounters with the
president.
While Pastrana may enjoy strong electoral backing, the Congress
here remains heavily Liberal. Ingrid Betancur, a Liberal deputy who
has been supporting Pastrana's candidacy, said that Pastrana would
probably seek a public referendum to elect a new Congress as part
of an overall drive for political reform if he could not govern
with the current Congress.
As president elect, Pastrana's first order of business is
expected to be a direct meeting with the leader of the largest
rebel group that has been battling government security forces for
more than 30 years, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. He
pledges to hold such as meeting as early as next week if security
permits.
The two candidates' potential ability to negotiate an end to the
civil conflict that has claimed more than 30,000 lives in Colombia
was, along with the economy, a top issue in the campaign. With the
strong support of Colombia's business community and his
Conservative credentials unquestioned by the military, Pastrana
appears to have wide latitude for tackling the country's most
difficult problems.
In the final days of campaigning, Pastrana had pledged to meet
with Manuel Marulanda, the rebel leader, who had already met with
Pastrana's campaign chief the week before.
The rebel leader allowed the release of a photo of himself
talking with Pastrana's campaign manager, in what appeared to be a
silent endorsement of the Conservative candidate. That move struck
at the heart of Serpa's claim to be the candidate most capable of
negotiating peace talks, and it increased Pastrana's standing among
voters weary of the intractable civil conflict.
Pastrana has pledged to lead negotiations personally with the
leftist rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and
with the smaller National Liberation Army and has agreed to a
guerrilla demand that government security forces evacuate five
municipalities during any peace negotiations. He has pledged
separate parallel talks with right-wing paramilitary leaders, who
have been demanding a say in any peace negotiations.
Pastrana has not ruled out a settlement that would incorporate
the rebels into the government, allowing them political control of
areas they already control on the ground. Under such an agreement,
the government would eventually end fumigation of drug crops,
holding the rebels responsible for eliminating drug crops in their
areas. Pastrana has proposed an international aid plan to support
alternative development in coca growing regions as well.
The mood in Bogota was festive and energetic on Sunday, with
cars festooned with posters and stickers for the candidates
careening through down the avenues and taking over street corners.
Youngsters painted their faces in the red, blue and yellow of the
Colombian flag and waved flags from car windows.
At scattered stoplights around the city, the supporters for
Pastrana exhorted drivers to vote for their candidate, while across
the street, supporters of Serpa shouted the praises of their man.
At polling places from the working class district of South
Candelaria to the toney outdoor polling stations in northern
Bogota, voters appeared divided, and none too pleased with either
of the candidates.
Jorge Ramirez, a 46-year-old businessman, stood with his dog
outside the room where he would vote. He said he could not decide
for whom to vote and listed his country's troubles.
In the poorer neighborhoods, Pastrana, the son of former
President Misael Pastrana, was frequently resented for his
political pedigree, while Serpa was embraced for having risen above
his working class background in the oil port of Barrancabermeja.
But those aspiring to the middle class, holding management jobs or
owning their own businesses, appeared to favor Pastrana.
LYON, France They never saw themselves going out this way. Not
with a whistle blowing and scarlet-clad Iranians leaping off the
bench and hugging and kissing and weeping and thanking the heavens.
Not with one match left to play. Not two-and-out.
Four years ago, when less was expected, the Yanks had
overachieved. They had made it to the second round and lost by one
goal to eventual champion Brazil. The draw was tougher this time
and they were playing overseas and yet ...
They never thought they would lose last night. Iran had not been
to a World Cup in 20 years. The sport had gone moribund there for
nearly a decade after the Islamic revolution and during the war
with Iraq.
Not that the Americans ever thought it would be easy. They knew
how much beating Uncle Sam meant back in Tehran. They knew the
Iranians would play themselves into the ground. But the Americans
thought that if they loaded their lineup with attackers and kept
coming, coming, coming, they would win.
So they came with guns blazing. They controlled the ball for 34
minutes, 20 of them in the attacking zone. They took 27 shots.
Brian McBride hit the crossbar. Claudio Reyna hit the right post.
David Regis hit the left post. Frankie Hejduk nearly blew a hole
through the keeper's gut from sawed-off shotgun range. Nothing. Not
until 87 of the 90 minutes had ticked down and Iran was already up
by two goals.
The Americans never dreamed it would not be them. Even though
they had struggled to qualify for the tournament, they had
developed a reputation for winning the important match or at
least not losing it. They had played down a man for much of a
qualifying match against Mexico in Mexico City's foul thin air and
managed a scoreless draw. They had beaten the Canadians by three
goals in Vancouver to get here. They figured they could win last
night, even if the ball wasn't bouncing for them.
They are still not good enough to get a result, even after three
consecutive trips to the World Cup. Getting a result is a soccer
term for extracting exactly what you need out of a match. Three
points, one point, or zero points with only one goal allowed. The
countries that win World Cups the Brazils, the Germanys, the
Italys, the Argentinas know how to get a result.
The Americans, down 1-0, lost 2-1. So they'll fly to Nantes
today and sit around a seaside hotel for three days and wait to
play a match that will mean something in Belgrade but nothing in
Boston. They've canceled next weekend's just-in-case hotel
reservations in Montpellier and Toulouse. Come Friday, they'll put
on their blue blazers and neckties and fly home to a country that
will be watching baseball and Wimbledon.
There is still time for National Basketball Association players
to form a team and compete for the United States in Athens, Greece,
this summer, just as there is still time for the players and owners
to agree on a deal that would ensure labor peace before the current
collective-bargaining agreement expires on July 1.
But given the stubborn climate of recent negotiations, neither
appears likely. Even with a meeting Monday in New York, both sides
appear headed toward a long, tense summer of bargaining. With major
monetary issues on the table, the league faces the growing
possibility of losing games to labor strife for the first time.
Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players'
association, proposed last Wednesday that both sides agree to a
moratorium rather than the owners' locking out the players. A
lockout would prohibit any NBA business between players and teams,
meaning the free-agent signing period, set to begin July 1, would
be postponed indefinitely.
But the owners will not accept any deal that allows more
contracts or trades to be signed and consummated under the current
rules. Barring major concessions, two league officials confirmed
last Friday, a lockout is imminent.
Using the world championships in Athens as a platform, the 12
NBA players selected for the team have decided to boycott the games
until a labor agreement is reached. USA Basketball, the
organization that selects teams for international play, stoked the
fires last week, saying it would send another team to Athens.
There is hope for Grant Hill, Gary Payton and friends to play
overseas. FIBA, which oversees international competition, has
privately intimated to USA Basketball that it would accommodate
last-minute replacements in order to field the best team possible.
It is a move that would clear the way for NBA players to decide to
compete shortly before the games begin on July 29.
According to a lawyer familiar with the negotiations, the owners
want to install a hard salary cap, essentially a fixed amount each
team can spend in a season, without exceptions. Over the next two
or three seasons, teams would also like to phase out the Larry Bird
exception, in which teams can pay their own free agents whatever
they want, regardless of the salary cap.
For the owners, the ultimate goal is to reduce salaries over a
three-year period so that they do not exceed 48 percent to 50
percent of revenues. They also would like to limit individual
salaries so that one or two players do not gobble up all the money
on a roster.
Whereas the owners see their proposals as finally bringing some
economic balance to a league of $100 million-or-bust contracts, the
players view the approach as taking back what it is already theirs.
This is what preparation for the NBA has come to: A guy who had
not played five-on-five basketball until two years ago may end up
going No. 1 in Wednesday's draft.
Now hedging on whether they will select Arizona point guard Mike
Bibby with the first pick, the Los Angeles Clippers may take the
University of Pacific's 7-foot-1-inch Nigerian, Michael Olowokandi,
this week in Vancouver, British Columbia.
The club is said to be divided on which player it will choose,
leaving the door open for the first five or six selections.
Vancouver, which is said to be interested in taking the Kansas
forward Paul Pierce at No. 2, is still entertaining offers from
teams for its pick. The Denver Nuggets, who have the third pick,
are worried the Toronto Raptors will move up from No. 4 to No. 2 in
order to take Olowokandi or Bibby, thus forcing them to take Pierce
instead of the big man they covet.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Firefighters raced to one blaze after
another Sunday as brush fires likely started by lightning burned near the Palm Beach Gardens Municipal Golf Course and in
woods around Jupiter Middle School.
Two Palm Beach County Fire Rescue units also were sent north to
Jonathan Dickinson State Park in Martin County, where they helped
control a 20-acre fire in the 640-acre Girl Scout camp. A 30-acre
fire also broke out in the Dupree Reserve in Indiantown, Martin
County fire rescue workers said.
No homes were destroyed, no people hurt. But Northern Palm Beach
County and parts of Martin County fell under a heavy haze of brush
fire smoke.
The fire near Jupiter Middle School started at about 12:30 p.m.
as two smaller fires about 1,000 feet apart, Smith said. But by 4
p.m., the fires had merged, winds stoked the fire to about 10
acres. At times, the blaze moved dangerously close to portable
classrooms on the south side of the campus.
He added, though, that the number of Palm Beach County brush
fires so far this year is below normal because a wet winter delayed
the November start of the brush fire season by two months.
So far this month, less than one-half inch of rain has fallen in
Palm Beach County, according to the National Weather Service. The
norm by this time of month is about 4.9 inches.
Baker said he hopes that forecast comes through. If not, South
Florida risks drying up like North Florida, where weeklong brush
fires have threatened homes and led to evacuations, he said.
Elsewhere Sunday, wildfires closed a stretch of Interstate 95,
kept dozens of evacuated residents near Deland away from their
homes and consumed 10,000 acres of forest owned by paper and timber
companies in north-central Florida.
Firefighters battled blazes in at least 19 counties. Eighty-six
fires had been started in the past 24 hours, mostly by lighting
strikes, and 80 to 90 new fires were expected daily unless Florida
received some rainfall, officials said.
Since Memorial Day, fires have burned 72 homes and 41 other
structures in Florida. President Clinton has declared the entire
state a fire disaster area, and a statewide, outdoor, burning ban
remains in effect, indefinitely.
The U.S. Forest Service said that 80 percent of the state was at
a drought index level equivalent to a desert. A heat wave continued
to hover over most of the state.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. It was remorse, detectives say, that led
wealthy murder suspect Isaac Benarroch to fire a .40 caliber gun
into his own chest a year ago.
But his remorse wasn't over the death of Richardo La Bergere,
the suburban West Palm Beach man police suspect Benarroch ordered
killed. Nor, police say, was it over Zvika Yuz, a Fort Lauderdale,
Fla. man who like La Bergere was shot to death after receiving
death threats from Benarroch.
Instead, detectives say, Benarroch, 64, a Venezuelan living in
North Miami, Fla., killed himself at an exclusive Georgia resort
because he'd squandered his vast inheritance and would otherwise
have little to leave his children.
Rather than die a working man, Benarroch plotted his own suicide
for at least two years, police said, as part of an elaborate
insurance scheme to leave his children millionaires and still live
out his last years in style.
Police said a shady network of secret investors paid Benarroch's
life insurance premiums while Benarroch lived in a condo equipped
with a waterfall and stream.
Benarroch's $16 million scheme unfolds in files compiled by Palm
Beach County sheriff's deputies investigating the Feb. 12, 1997,
assassination of La Bergere outside the Tennis Club of Palm Beach
in suburban West Palm Beach. A man wearing a motorcycle helmet
wandered the parking lot and tennis courts for two hours before
shooting La Bergere, 64, nine times, police said.
The thick files of the La Bergere homicide case now sit in a box
waiting for a new lead, particularly the shooter's identity, said
sheriff's Detective Michael Wingate, who led the investigation.
Leads began drying up after a maid found Benarroch dead in his
$230-a-night room at The Cloister hotel on Sea Island, Ga., a year
ago this past Saturday. After months of investigation, Glenn
County, Ga., police Detective Neal Zealous concluded the death was
a suicide intended to look like an accident.
Detectives in Georgia and Florida learned Benarroch, a fanatical
tennis player, had approached friends in his tennis circles and
even an old University of Miami college roommate about an
opportunity to double their money.
Det. Zealous found Benarroch held insurance policies worth
nearly $16 million upon his death with four companies: Two with
Prudential Insurance Company of America in Newark, N.J., for $7
million and $2 million; one with Lincoln Benefit Life Company in
Lincoln, Neb., for $4 million; one with American General Corp. in
Houston, Texas, for $2 million; and one with Traveler's Life Annuities Co. in Hartford, Conn., for $950,000.
Wyllner could not be reached for comment. But according to the
statement he gave to police, Benarroch said he needed investors to
pay the more than $100,000 in insurance premiums per year until the
one- to two-year suicide clauses in the policies expired. Upon
Benarroch's death, the investors would double their money.
Then Benarroch explained why. He recalled how his father awoke
at 5 a.m. to sweep the family's little appliance store in Venezuela
when he was a young boy. His parents had worked so hard to give him
a good life; eventually, that little store grew into one of the
biggest stores in Caracas. In time, he inherited a fortune.
But as Benarroch reached his 60s, he realized he'd never held a
job and that at his current rate of spending, he would die a
pauper, leaving his two children nothing.
At the time, Benarroch was living in a condominium at the
Cricket Club in North Miami where the maintenance fees alone cost
$1,000 a month.
Detectives said Benarroch saw no point in paying a premium that
would cover a period after his death: June 20, 1997, the day he
killed himself, was two days before the next premium was due.
Although he wouldn't invest in the death plot, Wyllner told
police he agreed to try to recruit a handful of tennis
acquaintances to listen to Benarroch's offer. But it never came
together with the people they knew at their Fort Lauderdale tennis
club, Wyllner told investigators.
People who heard the sketchy sales pitch assumed it was based on
Benarroch having a fatal disease and concluded it was a scam since
Benarroch seemed too strong on the tennis court to be dying,
Wyllner told police.
Although detectives in Georgia, Palm Beach County and Fort
Lauderdale say they're certain Benarroch found the investors he
needed, no one admitted being one. Two of Benarroch's friends said
Benarroch told them that a man in Venezuela had invested $100,000
in the plan.
Det. Zealous said at least three of the insurance companies paid
the beneficiaries in the months following Benarroch's death.
Because the suicide clauses had expired, the companies had to pay
unless they had another reason to withhold payment, detectives
said.
American General and Prudential confirmed paying a total of $11
million to Benarroch's beneficiaries, but the other companies would
not comment. Zealous said one company contested the validity of the
contract because a premium was either late or unpaid.
Benarroch left $100,000 each to a girlfriend and to a close
female friend he had once dated, and left the rest to his children,
said Fort Lauderdale Det. John King. Benarroch's daughter, Alice
Benarroch, 36, of North Miami, was executor of the will, and her
brother, Alan Benarroch, 34, of Venezuela, was to get money under
the condition that he divorce his wife whom his father disliked,
the detectives said. Neither sibling could be reached for comment
last week.
But before the children could collect, the money went to
Casablanca Investment Corp., a company in Grand Cayman, which their
father organized to handle the estate, King said. Detectives said
they feel certain the children knew nothing of the plan.
Wyllner told investigators Benarroch feared that if he killed La
Bergere himself, he would be arrested and unable to pay his
premiums. After La Bergere died, Benarroch gloated, but never
directly said he killed him or ordered a hit, Wyllner told Wingate.
Benarroch and La Bergere, a vacuum cleaner salesman, had once
been friends with similar tastes and much in common. They both had
sons named Alan, a love of tennis and a partnership in a Venezuelan
tennis club. La Bergere even married and later divorced a woman
Benarroch had dated.
La Bergere's family told Wingate the two men became enemies
after La Bergere discovered Benarroch stealing from the partnership
in the early '90s and informed their other partners. There were
word wars in the Venezuelan media and legal battles that further
drained Benarroch's accounts, detectives said. Benarroch was
furious he'd been pushed out and was no longer allowed in his own
club, Wyllner told detectives.
In 1993, La Bergere received an unsigned death threat written
from Benarroch's point of view and style; it vowed vengeance within
10 years for having been cheated of $417,000 in the tennis club
venture, detectives said.
About that time, Benarroch was also thought to have been the
author of a death threat sent to Yuz of Fort Lauderdale, police
there said. Yuz had encouraged Benarroch to invest in Premium Sales
Corp., a Miami grocery trading company later accused of fleecing
hundreds of investors out of more than $400 million, investigators
said. Benarroch claimed to have lost $600,000 the last money he
had, King said.
Yuz was gunned down in his Mercedes-Benz May 12, 1997,
detectives said, by a man carrying a doll and wearing a fake beard.
The shooting occurred exactly three months after La Bergere was
killed in Palm Beach County.
When Palm Beach County detectives asked Benarroch to come in for
an interview, Benarroch insisted he was innocent and referred them
to his lawyer. The attorney, another of his tennis acquaintances,
turned down the interview request.Editor's question: A 1997 story
said the lawyer did talk to police??
By the time Yuz was killed, Benarroch didn't have the money to
hire hit men, King said. The detective said the property at the
Cricket Club had been foreclosed upon and Benarroch was moving from
one hotel to another; all but one of his credit cards had been
closed for non-payment.
Warm reports about Prince Charles have begun to blossom on both
sides of the Atlantic this summer. Some little green fingerlings
of fact, like his contribution of a watercolor he painted of Hong
Kong harbor to an auction this week at the New York Academy of Art gently suggest a creative spirit, a charitable heart. But there
are big flattering images of princely purpose ripening into color,
too.
Such a shift in image can sometimes be the result of artful
public relations work, a careful mulching and watering of the
media. The British press, chastened by the criticism of its pursuit
of Diana, the princess of Wales, in the wake of her death, has been
in a mood to be receptive. The image of England's remote,
expensive, undisciplined royal clan was in dire need of freshening.
There were also issues of personal character. When Diana's
traumatic death brought the monarchy's cold ineptitude into such
sharp relief, the perception of the prince had been crumbling,
piece by piece, through almost two decades of marital scandal and
disintegration. She had become an icon of glamour, motherhood and
good deeds. His public persona had been reduced to that of an
eccentric blunderer: unrequited in love and work, ineffectual in
fatherhood, moodily puttering in his garden.
Now, as her presence fades and a collection of her ball gowns
goes on paid exhibition at the new Ronald Reagan Building in
Washington, Prince Charles is beginning to enjoy a different kind
of reputation. With his enduring lover, Camilla Parker Bowles,
somewhere out of sight, and the prince more often in view in the
company of his sons, there seems to be a welling public regard for
him.
He is seen as a protective father, an innovative manager of his
estates, a thoughtful man, a modest, candid future king. In the
warmth of this summer, as his 50th birthday nears this fall, it
seems the prince and his country are starting to graft. After such
a long period of growing apart, it is a startling sight.
SAN FRANCISCO Payne Stewart thought the man in his own twosome
would be the one to worry about Sunday at The Olympic Club. So did
the gallery. So did most of the media. So did Melissa Lehman, who
often could not see over the fans to note the pain and frustration
on his husband's face.
Again, the gods made their decision and Tom Lehman faded on a
U.S. Open Sunday, the victim of a cruel putter and possibly of
history, too.
Lee Janzen had foiled Stewart before, by two shots in the 1993
U.S Open with a record-tying score of 272 at Baltusrol. On Sunday
he did it again, coming from as many as seven shots off the lead to
win the 98th U.S Open.
For all the complaining Stewart had done about landing in a
divot filled with sand on the 12th hole or the USGA warning he
received for slow play, all that really mattered in the end was the
20-foot putt he stood over on the 18th hole. For a second or two it
looked headed for the cup, but just broke off, securing the win and
ending Stewart's chance to force a playoff.
While history might think otherwise, suggesting that the man
with the four-shot lead with a round to play indeed blew the U.S.
Open, Stewart lobbied hard to note the quality of Janzen's
2-under-68. When the champion finishes at even par, all seemed to
agree, the venue emerged as the real winner.
Lehman, who has come up short for four straight U.S Opens,
seemed the real victim. When be bogeyed the 14th hole to drop to
4-over, he knew his day was over. The double-bogey at 17th was just
added pain.
Janzen, who had not won a PGA Tour event in three years and blew
his opportunity to win a second Players Championship in March with
a Sunday 79, was filled with emotion after the win. That it came on
Father's Day, with his dad Larry in the crowd and son Connor
present, made for, well, an Olympic moment.
Reggie Jackson was a player who knew how to stir up a laugh with
his one-liners as well as he could shake up a game with his bat. He
once demonstrated that agility with one quip after a game in which
he struck out four consecutive times, but won it with a grand slam
in his final at-bat.
On Sunday the Mets had to feel much the way Jackson did on that
star-crossed day. Yes, they enjoyed a 3-2 victory over the Florida
Marlins, wonderfully punctuated by a game-saving performance by
John Franco, who pitched the Mets out of a bases-loaded, no-outs
jam in the top of the eighth inning.
Franco celebrated by pumping his fist, thereby pumping up his
team. After the victory, however, the reliever did not hesitate to
take the team to task. He questioned the Mets for their inability
to salvage more from a stretch of games in which schedule makers
all but gift-wrapped game-winning opportunities against Florida and
Montreal, two of the weakest teams in the major leagues.
Sunday's victory was the Mets' lone moment of triumph in an
otherwise lost and debilitating three-game series against the
Marlins. That brought the Mets' now-completed 10-game run against
the Marlins and Expos to 4-6. That, the Mets know, is unacceptable.
And the big boys are coming, in the form of the underachieving
yet still potent Baltimore Orioles, who are host to the Mets Monday
night, and the last team the Mets could possibly want to see
during a time of struggle the Yankees.
Before looking ahead, though, the Mets might take time to
fitfully look back. If there had ever been a chance to convince
everyone, including themselves, that they are contenders as opposed
to pretenders, the Expos and Marlins presented it, tied up with
bright ribbons and bows.
Such soft spots in the schedule have to be taken advantage of,
if not feasted on. Other teams, when given the chance this season,
certainly have. Five teams have been presented with the enticing
opportunity to play the Expos and Marlins in consecutive series,
and the Mets have failed to exploit the situation as well as the
others.
Both the Cubs and the Brewers won six of seven and that was
before the Marlins further downsized to a minor-league caliber
franchise.
The Yankees, who have to revel in any favorable comparison to
the Mets, faced consecutive interleague series against the Expos
and Marlins and turned them into walkovers, winning five of six
games.
And no Met pretended that the famine turned into a feast, even
in victory Sunday, considering that one of the Mets' runs scored on
a walk, a hit and a groundout and another on an error, a walk and a
wild pitch. The offense remains missing in action.
Sunday's formula worked. Yet even though the Mets defeated the
rookie Joe Fonentot, who is without a victory in the major leagues,
they had to know it was not in a way that was close to being
palatable. Not when a pitcher who entered the game with an 8.14
earned run average pitched convincingly for seven innings,
something he had done only twice before this season and never above
Class AA.
Monday night the battle resumes against teams capable of
offering even greater resistance, and more than just saving face
will be at stake. All because of the golden opportunities the Mets
turned into dust.
The United Automobile Workers' strike against General Motors in
Flint, Mich., is an indication of just how deep distrust can still
run in an industry where workers and management all too often have
seen each other as enemies whose every action is viewed with
hostility.
This strike began in that atmosphere. Each side believes the
other failed to live up to promises made more than a year ago. The
company says workers are refusing to implement agreements to
improve productivity, while the workers accuse management of not
making promised investments to improve the plant and fear
management secretly wants to move their jobs to Mexico or to
nonunion suppliers.
Neither side thinks it can rely on the word of the other, and
there is no sign that the strike, which began June 5, will end
soon. Workers and the company are suffering as the strike forces GM
to close most of its North American assembly lines.
For the workers themselves, there is no reason to fear losing
their jobs. The UAW's contract with GM guarantees that current
union workers can keep working until they retire. But GM's hourly
work force in America has been declining steadily with attrition,
and is now less than half the level of two decades ago. The workers
fear their children will not have the opportunities they had to get
well-paid auto-industry jobs.
With the American economy booming, GM is making money, a fact
that makes it harder for the company to plead necessity as it
pushes for higher productivity. But the world auto industry has
substantial overcapacity, and some kind of shakeout is probably
inevitable. For American plants to continue to compete in making
affordable cars, companies and workers must find a way to
cooperate. Ford and Chrysler have done a far better job of this
than has General Motors, which is enduring its 16th strike in five
years.
This strike will be settled at some point, and General Motors
cars will again roll off the assembly lines. But if the two sides
do not find a way to change the atmosphere of distrust and
hostility, the chances of GM's regaining its competitive edge and
of being in a position to hire the children of current workers will not be good.
NEW YORK The first time that Kym Hampton took the ball to the
basket, determined to challenge the Utah Starzz's 7-foot-2-inch
center, Margo Dydek, Hampton admitted, she was as frightened and
curious to see the result as the 15,754 fans at Madison Square
Garden. 
Giving away a foot to Dydek and even Hampton's teammates are
skeptical of the 6-2 listed in her bio Hampton took the ball to
the basket and came away unscathed. Once that worked, she did it
again and again, scoring a career-high 22 points to help the
Liberty to a 68-64 victory. 
It worked three times for Hampton before Dydek blocked one of
her shots, which was enough to lift the confidence of the center
and allow her to believe Coach Nancy Darsch's insistence that she
play more aggressively. Hampton greeted the coach's advice with a
willing spirit but a dubious mind, facing the Women's National
Basketball Association's version of Wilt Chamberlain, although
Dydek's game may be more similar to Shawn Bradley's.
The Liberty, playing its first home game of the season after a
dismal 1-4 road trip, desperately needed something. New York lost
to Utah on Monday by 71-60. The home-court advantage hardly seemed
to provide an inspiration at the start as the Liberty fell behind
by 10-2 and then by 15-4. Dydek showed a deft shooting touch,
hitting all five of her field goal attempts in the first half and
adding a pair of free throws for 12 points. But Hampton had 10
points in the first half and the Liberty was able to close the gap
to just three at the half, 32-29. 
In the second half, Rebecca Lobo, who had just two points in the
first half, got the Liberty started by scoring the team's first
eight points of the half for its first lead since 2-0. Hampton
continued to work inside in the second half, while Dydek was unable
to get her shot off. Sidelined by foul trouble for much of the
second half, Dydek attempted just one field goal and made it to
finish a perfect 6-of-6 from the floor. But Hampton outscored her
by 12-2 after halftime. 
In the first meeting between these teams, Hampton had settled
for outside shots and was just 2-of-8 from the floor for five
points. Lobo was 2-of-11 in that game, timid to bring the ball
inside.
Vickie Johnson, who had 17 points, gave the Liberty the lead for
good, 60-59, with a pair of free throws with 2 minutes 55 seconds
to play. Hampton scored inside around Dydek on the next possession,
and Johnson followed that with a 3-point field goal from the corner
with one second left on the 30-second clock to give New York a
65-59 advantage. Teresa Weatherspoon, who had eight assists and six
steals, added a free throw and then Johnson swiped the Starzz's
inbounds pass and went the distance to complete an 11-0 run.
But conditions Sunday were hardly ideal for the Astros, who
faced an unfavorable pitching matchup at least on paper and
went to battle without Billy Wagner and Doug Henry, their two top
relief pitchers.
Not a problem. The Astros scuffled their way to a win loaded
with redeeming value for pitchers Pete Schourek and Mike Magnante,
who joined Trever Miller to stifle the Reds and help the Astros
complete their first series sweep of Cincinnati since 1992.
Schourek, who was coming off his worst outing of the season,
pitched six solid innings to claim his fourth victory, and Magnante
retired the final two batters for save No. 1 a day after blowing
a 5-2 lead and displaying faulty command.
Wagner has a tired arm and was given the day off. Henry has been
sidelined for the first five games of a seven-game homestand with
soreness in his right elbow. Both should be available tonight when
the Astros open a two-game interleague series against Minnesota.
Schourek left with a two-run lead after six innings, and Miller
and Magnante made it stand up as the Astros won for the 11th time
in their last 15 games.
And this was no easy save. With one out and two men on in the
ninth, Dierker traded lefties, lifting Miller for Magnante with
All-Star shortstop Barry Larkin coming up.
Righthander Bob Scanlan was ready to enter the game, but Dierker
opted for Magnante, who got a weak ground ball from Larkin and
struck out switch-hitting Dmitri Young to end the game.
With Wagner around, save opportunities are rare for other
members of the Astros' bullpen. Wagner has 18 of the team's 23
saves, and Magnante isn't ready to replace his good buddy as the
closer.
Albeit mild, Schourek was under pressure to perform in light of
Scott Elarton's solid debut. If Elarton continues to pitch well,
the Astros might want to find a spot in the rotation for him, and
Schourek has been the most inconsistent starter on the staff. In
his previous outing, a 9-4 loss to St. Louis, Schourek lasted just
three innings (six runs, five hits and a career-high seven walks).
Although Schourek pitched for the Reds the past four seasons, he
said he took no special pleasure in beating his former teammates.
Sunday's game was a battle of Pistol Petes Houston's Schourek
and Cincinnati's Harnisch, who also was working against his former
team.
Harnisch shot himself in the foot in the third inning when he
hit Craig Biggio and put himself in position to face the heart of
the Astros' order with one out. Biggio moved to second on a single
by Bill Spiers and scored on Jeff Bagwell's base hit to left.
Schourek, who threw a season-high 116 pitches, retired 12 of the
first 20 batters he faced before the Reds got something going in
the sixth inning. Young doubled and scored on a sacrifice fly by
Sean Casey.
That proved to be the only run for the Reds, who left 12 men on
base and never collected more than one hit in any inning.
Things began to fall apart in the sixth for Harnisch, who
allowed the first three batters to reach base. Bagwell and Moises
Alou singled, and Carl Everett drew a walk to load the bases for
Tony Eusebio.
Harnisch got Eusebio to hit into a double play, but Bagwell was
able to score for a 2-1 lead. Ricky Gutierrez singled home Alou.
From there, the bullpen and stellar defensive plays by Biggio,
Spiers and Derek Bell were all the Astros needed to move to 18
games over .500 (46-28).
They are both students from Congo who fled to the United States,
certain they would have been killed in the political turmoil at
home. Bakam Mimpongo, 21, was caught at New York's Kennedy
International Airport, trying to enter with fake papers. Bisinwa
Borumbi, 22, stowed away in a cargo ship and was seized in
Jacksonville, Fla.
Each gave similar accounts of persecution, of paramilitary
groups and rebels ravaging villages and taking prisoners, of their
desperate need for asylum.
But in the United States, their paths have sharply diverged. Ms.
Mimpongo spent five months and 10 days in a federal detention
center in New York City last year before being granted asylum.
Borumbi, detained in Miami in February of this year, was freed on
parole after three weeks, but his case has not yet been resolved.
Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees point to the
different treatment of cases like these as a sign that federal
immigration laws are applied unevenly throughout the nation.
Important decisions from how long it takes to review an asylum
seeker's case to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detained
for months seem to hinge more on the number of beds available at
a detention center than on a cohesive national policy.
The inconsistencies in granting parole are dizzying, said
Charles Wheeler, who monitors the cases of asylum seekers
nationwide as the supervisor of the detention project at the
Catholic Legal Immigration Network, a private advocacy group in San
Francisco.
In El Paso, Texas, he said, many asylum seekers have to post
bond before being paroled. In Los Angeles and New Jersey, asylum
seekers are usually released, but only if family members will
sponsor them. In Miami, virtually everyone is released. In New
York, virtually no one is.
A recently released study and interviews with more than a dozen
lawyers and their clients confirm Wheeler's findings. While some
asylum seekers are allowed to argue their cases shortly after
arrival, others languish in detention for months, sometimes
surrounded by convicted criminals in county jails. Some are
released after posting bond as low as $5,000, or simply by
providing the address where they plan to reside.
While some women with children are released immediately, others
are held for months, separated from their children. Lawyers said
that clients with identical cases might be treated differently from
one month to the next.
Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say that these
irregularities are an especially urgent issue now because the
swiftness of deportations under the new law makes the need for a
good, timely defense more critical than ever.
Under the old law, people who requested asylum were allowed to
stay in the country while their cases were heard by immigration
judges. If the judges ruled against them, they could appeal to the
Board of Immigration Appeals and then the federal courts, a process
that could take a year or more.
Now, detainees are under pressure to prepare a compelling case
quickly and lawyers say this is a difficult task for people
behind bars. Instead of freely searching for lawyers and preparing
their cases, detainees who do not speak English or know the laws of
the United States must often wait for lawyers to spot them and
visit them at detention centers, usually out-of-the-way places that
resemble jails and afford little privacy.
There is no way of knowing precisely how many people have been
affected adversely by the law, because the federal government does
not keep statistics of how many people who go through the new
procedures are denied asylum. But asylum seekers are always a tiny
percentage of the hundreds of thousands people who seek entry into
the United States every year.
From August of last year through the end of January, for
example, 1,300 new arrivals expressed a fear to return home. Of
those, 1,066 were sent to detention centers; the rest were
deported.
Karen Musalo, a co-director of the study, said that asylum
seekers sometimes mothers and their children are routinely kept
in detention in New York for months until a judge hears their case.
That is what happened to Sivajini Kadambarathnam, 35, and her
13-year-old son, Rajakumar. The two were stopped on March 12, upon
arrival at Kennedy Airport without documents from Sri Lanka, and
ordered detained, her immigration records show. But because no
children are allowed in the Wackenhut detention center in Jamaica,
Queens, Rajakumar was sent to a center for juveniles in Miami.
Immigration officials said they were willing to release the boy,
but not the mother, to sponsors. But the sponsor would not take the
boy by himself, so the two remained in detention but separated, one
of her lawyers, Eileen Collins Bretz, said. The INS said the two
were separated because minors were not allowed in the New York
detention center. Mrs. Kadambarathnam was granted political asylum
and released June 2, after nearly three months in detention. Her
son had been released a day earlier.
In Miami, where the influx of Haitian and Central American
immigrants seldom lets up, the Krome detention center routinely
releases asylum seekers who can show they have a place to stay,
said Stacey Taeuber, a pro-bono lawyer who works with detainees.
The policy was different last year: to be released on parole,
asylum seekers needed to post a $5,000 bond.
One of Ms. Taeuber's clients was Gabriel Jaime Castano, 28, a
Colombian immigrant who said he had no intention of seeking
political asylum when he arrived at Miami International Airport in
January with a visitor's visa. A farmer from near Medellin, Castano
said he had gone to Miami to escape his country's violence for a
few weeks. He was tired of paying off both the army and the
guerrillas with 20 live chickens a month to stay alive, he
said.
Immigration officers detained him because they did not believe
he intended only to visit, Castano said. After consulting with
lawyers there, he said he realized that asking for political asylum
would get him out of detention faster than sticking to his original
claim.
That tactic would probably not have worked in New York. When the
Wackenhut detention center fills up, asylum seekers are sent to a
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., or to the York County Prison,
in York, Pa., said Mark Thorn, a spokesman from the INS office in
New York.
Judy Epstein, a spokeswoman from the Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society, said that one of the agency's clients a 20-year-old
woman from Ghana who has been detained for seven months was
recently transferred to Pennsylvania. The woman, Swaibatu Mohammed,
told the agency that five other women were moved with her.
In years to come, the INS intends to detain even more people as
it builds more detention facilities, said Bergeron. In doing so, he
said, the agency would be following the mandate of Congress, which
since 1996 has allocated $205.3 million to add 7,364 spaces to the
agency's current detention capacity and 882 positions to its
payroll.
Already, the INS has 15,000 beds in nine detention facilities,
prisons and an array of local jails around the country, an 80
percent increase from the number of beds available just three years
ago. Yet, Bergeron said, to accommodate all the people the law
mandates be detained those who seek entry into the United States
with no papers or with fraudulent documents the agency will have
to double its current detention capacity.
When the war ended, Palca worked as a publicity agent for 20th
Century Fox. In 1950 Columbia Pictures agreed to finance his film
about the Globetrotters. Palca hired Sidney Poitier, who then owned
a rib shop in Harlem, to star in the movie. In fact, Palca said,
part of the proof that he was a communist, the FBI told him, was
that he had hired Poitier, a black man.
The film, with Palca's name removed, was distributed by Fox.
Palca gave the producing credit to his brother-in-law, Anton
Leader, and the screen-writing credit to his cousin, Arnold Becker,
a pediatrician.
Palca is survived by Ms. Leader of Los Angeles; his wife, Doris,
of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret Palca, of Brooklyn; a son, Joe
Palca, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
TEHRAN, Iran The young woman flung off her head scarf and hung
out the window of the blue Volkswagen, her long red hair flying
wild in the wind.
Just behind was a police car with four officers, cheering and
waving at the crowd. Iran had beaten the United States in the World
Cup in France, and in Tehran it was a moment for mad celebration,
not Islamic punishment.
In a massive communal celebration that froze traffic, freed
spirits and cut across lines of class and gender, Iranians poured
into the streets the moment the game ended at 1:30 Monday morning.
Amid thousands of fans gathered in Vanak Square in central Tehran,
a dozen men danced together, stringing the names of Iran's soccer
stars into a rhyming chant.
A man and a woman sat halfway out of their car windows and
swayed to the American rock music that blared from their car.
Another man climbed up a 20-foot lamppost as the crowd cheered and
uniformed and plainclothes police officers and army troops looked
on.
Old men strolled the streets in nightshirts. Some women waved
flares and pounded on cars, ordering drivers to honk their horns
and cheer. Other women went out on their balconies wearing only
nightgowns and slippers.
In south central Tehran, a woman handed out sweets to strangers
for what she called a dual celebration.
It was not a night for gloating. One Iranian woman stopped and
kissed an American visitor, assuring her that the victory was
nothing personal; another invited the visitor to her home for a
meal. President Mohammed Khatami sent a message of congratulations
to the Iranian team.
The impromptu celebration was reminiscent of though much
smaller than the street celebrations marking Iran's draw with
Australia late last year, which qualified Iran for the World Cup
finals for the first time in 20 years. At that time, masses of
Iranians left their jobs and their homes for exultant
demonstrations.
This time, Iranian authorities took precautions to prevent any
celebrations or mourning from turning violent. Restaurants in
Tehran were forced to close at 9 p.m. Sports centers were ordered
to cancel plans to show the game on giant outdoor screens, and army
troops and plainclothes policemen were stationed at roadblocks
throughout the city.
Throughout this soccer-crazed country, Iranians were riveted to
their television screens from the starting kickoff at 11:30 p.m.,
cheering and grumbling as they watched.
To ensure that the coverage was Islamically correct, the
broadcast began seven seconds late, so that Iranian viewers would
not be subjected to the sight of fans in summer dress who might be
drinking alcoholic beverages.
When Hamid Reza Estili known as the James Bond of Iran scored the first goal, Iranians throughout Tehran were
thunderstruck. For one glorious moment, they had overtaken the
United States on at least one playing field.
Although Iranian officials greeted conciliatory words about Iran
this week by President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright with reserve, many Iranian citizens were delighted, a
delight that was magnified in the magic moment after Iran scored.
Soccer came to Iran decades ago via the two countries considered
most imperialist here, Britain and the United States. British oil
workers played the game in Abadan, and American and British
missionaries taught the game at their schools.
After the young Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi played center forward
at his Swiss boarding school in the 1930s, soccer was elevated from
a street sport to one worthy of the higher classes to play at their
private clubs.
Some leaders of the revolution tried to squelch the sport,
putting players in long pants and arguing about whether the game
was anti-Islamic. But that was difficult to do, because so many
clerics liked the game. Even Khomeini's son, Ahmed, played on a
team in the holy city of Qum.
LYONS, France The Iranian players shook hands with the
Americans before Sunday night's game, handed them white flowers
symbolizing peace and even posed together for a team picture. But
friendship extended only so far. There was a soccer game to win,
and not only did Iran prevail, 2-1, but this historic victory
knocked the United States out of contention in the World Cup.
This was the first time that Iran and the United States had met
in soccer and the first time that Iran ever won a game in two trips
to the World Cup. The countries exchanged visits by their
Olympic-style wrestling teams this year, and have participated in
the Summer Games, but this was the most visible head-to-head
sporting event between the two countries since the Islamic
revolution in 1979.
In victory on Sunday night, Iranian players said it was
significant to have defeated the Americans, and not necessarily for
political reasons.
Although soccer's world governing body had feared that
protesters would try to disrupt the game, just the opposite
happened, as fans of both teams seemed to go out of their way to
show that they could be courteous and friendly even if their
governments could not. The only demonstration was a vigorous but
peaceful protest against Iran's Islamic regime, launched by several
thousand Iranian expatriates who smuggled T-shirts and banners into
Gerland Stadium showing the pictures of two leaders of a
Paris-based opposition group called the National Council of
Resistance.
In Tehran, thousands of celebrating fans took to the streets,
some women without their scarves, despite efforts by the Islamic
regime took steps to make sure that the celebration was not as
vociferous as it had been last November when millions took to the
street in spontaneous celebration after Iran qualified for the
World Cup for the first time in 20 years.
Still, the Iranian players said they knew the ordinary people of
Iran would be exultant.
The match was played several days after President Clinton called
for improved relations with Iran after 19 years of enmity between
the two countries, and followed a call in January by Iranian
President Mohammad Khatami for cultural exchanges between the two
countries.
Dissidents also tried to capitalize on the forum by promoting
their resistance group. French police rushed into the stands
several times to confiscate banners and new pictures celebrating
the two leaders of the National Council of Resistance, but new
banners and pictures kept popping up like mushrooms. The opposition
group's influence is considered to be limited inside Iran, but the
size of the protest was undoubtedly an embarrassment to the Islamic
regime.
In the game's most surreal moment, the protesters waved their
T-shirts and banners jubilantly at halftime as the public address
system played the Macarena. About 75 French policemen in riot gear
marched to one side of the field 10 minutes before the game
concluded, but the Iranian fans left peacefully and ecstatically.
While Iran (1-1) is expected to have its hopes of advancing to
the second round dashed on Thursday when it faces powerful Germany,
at least it can dream. The United States, which has lost both its
matches and has scored but one goal in the two games, will now play
Yugoslavia on Thursday in a game that will have meaning only to the
Yugoslavs.
Only the top two teams in the group will advance to the next
round and Germany, Iran and Yugoslavia each have four points, with
each winning a game for three points and tying one for one
point. With no points and only one game remaining, the United
States has no hope.
If the United States were a serious soccer country, Coach Steve
Sampson might have lost his job on Sunday night, as coaches from
Saudi Arabia and South Korea did in recent days. But Rothenberg
said Sampson would coach the team against Yugoslavia. Sampson made
five lineup changes on Sunday night, scrapping the 3-6-1 formation
he had used in the opening 2-0 loss to Germany for a 3-5-2
formation, with Brian McBride and Roy Wegerle at forwards and Tab
Ramos, Frankie Hejduk and Joe-Max Moore assuming roles in midfield.
Sampson wanted assertive play in attack after Monday's tentative
loss to Germany and on Sunday night the Americans hit the goalpost
twice and the crossbar once and outshot Iran, 27-15, but could not
score until McBride's header for a goal in the 88th minute. In
fact, the Americans came forward so aggressively, took so many
risks, that they were left completely out of shape on defense.
In the 40th minute, with Claudio Reyna giving him far too much
room, Iran's Hamid Estili headed a ball over the head of American
goalkeeper Kasey Keller to give his team a 1-0 lead. As the crowd
of 35,500, made largely of Iranian fans, erupted, Estili kissed the
ground in celebration.
Neither would Jalal Talebi, the Iranian coach who has lived for
17 years in Palo Alto, Calif., and who took his current job only
four weeks ago after his team floundered with a defensive style.
Before the game, fans of both teams shook hands and stood
together for pictures, draped in each other's flags, both in Lyons'
sunbaked plazas and outside Gerland Stadium. In a gesture of
friendship, some fans even wore red, white and blue hats
celebrating the United States and red, green and white jerseys hats
celebrating Iran.
Henry Jalali, a native of Iran who has lived for 25 years in San
Francisco, where he works as a civil engineer said any victory
would be for the Iranian people, not the Islamic regime. On Sunday
he wore an American handkerchief flag for a cap and an Iranian
jersey.
SAN FRANCISCO A few moments after realizing he had won the
U.S. Open Sunday, Lee Janzen wept. Who could blame him? The last
four days at the Olympic Club had been emotional, grueling and
relentlessly challenging, so difficult that nobody finished the
tournament under par.
Even after Janzen made a phenomenal charge he trailed by seven
strokes after the first three holes Sunday, and made four birdies
over the final 14 holes the torture was not over. He had to sit
helplessly and wait in the clubhouse as Payne Stewart lined up a
20-foot birdie attempt at No. 18. If the putt had fallen, Janzen
and Stewart would have played an 18-hole playoff Monday. For
Janzen, a Monday playoff would have at least have been better than
sudden death Sunday. After his final round, Janzen's knees were
weak.
He didn't have to. Stewart, who led for three days only to fall
agonizingly short, barely missed his putt for birdie at No. 18. It
broke right to left and slid just a few inches in front of the
hole, closing the door on Stewart and starting the tears for
Janzen. As he was hugged by his wife, Beverly, Janzen could finally
exhale. For the second time in his career, he was a U.S. Open
champion, adding to his 1993 championship at Baltusrol and taking
home the first-place check of $535,000.
Considering the circumstances, the comeback and the difficult
course on which he prevailed, this one-stroke victory was the
sweetest of Janzen's career.
It was a crushing defeat for Stewart, the 1991 Open champion,
who led after each of the first three rounds and who still led by
five strokes after his first three holes Sunday. But few
final-round leads are safe at Olympic, the same course where Arnold
Palmer lost a seven-stroke lead on the back nine to Billy Casper
during the 1966 Open.
Stewart shot his worst round of the tournament Sunday (74), and
after his birdie attempt on No. 18 missed, he admitted that he did
not play well enough to win. It was a familiar feeling for Stewart,
who also finished second to Janzen in the 1993 Open.
As Janzen was walking back to take another tee shot, which would
have also cost him a penalty stroke, the ball dropped out of the
tree. Janzen returned to his ball, then, after reaching the back of
the green in three shots, chipped in from about 20 feet to save
par. And he felt the momentum might be changing.
Meanwhile, Stewart was faltering. He bogeyed No. 4 and No. 7,
making the turn for the back nine at just 1 under par for the
tournament. Then when Janzen birdied No. 11 and No. 13 to pull to
even par for the tournament, Stewart had only a one-stroke lead.
Things got worse for Stewart at No. 12, when his tee shot landed in
a fairway sand divot. Stewart said he had always felt that a player
who hits in a sand divot should be given a free drop, instead of
playing the ball from the divot.
When Stewart bogeyed No. 13, Janzen had the lead for the first
time in the tournament. But Stewart responded with a birdie at No.
14 to even the tournament again. By this time, Tway and Tom Lehman,
who finished tied for fifth at 286, had already fallen out of
contention, while Nick Price, who finished fourth at 285, never
made a charge. It was a two-man race between Stewart and Janzen.
And Stewart made his final costly mistake, a bogey at the par-5 No.
16 to fall one stroke back, when he hit his third shot into a
bunker, chipped to 15 feet and then missed the putt.
Meanwhile, shortly before Stewart finished at No. 16, Janzen
made a crucial par at the treacherous 17th hole, a hole that Janzen
double-bogeyed on both Friday and Saturday.
After Janzen made par at No. 18, he had to wait for Stewart, who
made par at 17 and then fell short at 18. But for Janzen, the wait
was worth it. He had not won on the PGA Tour since 1995, and he had
moments when he doubted himself.
TOKYO Just two days before President Clinton departs for
China, financial markets in Asia reacted cautiously to political
and diplomatic efforts over the weekend to stabilize Asia's
currencies, in particular the Japanese yen.
The yen dipped modestly in value against the dollar in early
Tokyo trading Monday, as currency traders showed some
disappointment that Japan offered only promises, but no specific
measures, to revive its severely weakened economy.
The Japanese currency weakened to 137.35 to the dollar, from
136.10 yen in New York on Friday, erasing just a bit of the gains
brought about by the intervention of the United States and Japan
last week. Before the intervention, the yen had reached 144 to the
dollar.
Japanese stocks were also stable, with the Nikkei index of 225
issues up 12.34, to 15,280.32, at midmorning.
Traders were wary in selling off the yen because of fears that
the United States and Japan will intervene in the currency markets
again, as they did on Wednesday, to prop up the Japanese currency.
They also seem to be concerned about being on the wrong side of a
bet if Japan does take steps to strengthen its economy and the yen.
At a hastily called meeting Saturday of delegates from the Group
of Seven industrialized nations and 10 Asian nations, Japan
reitererated its commitment to clean up the nation's bad banking
loans and to take steps to revive its economy. But despite
expectations, Japan offered no new or concrete plans.
In what appeared to be an attempt to fend off an attack on the
yen, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto held an emergency meeting
Monday morning on the nation's bad banking loans with Koichi Kato,
the secretary general of the governing Liberal Democratic Party.
The meeting came as newspapers reported that a large Japanese bank,
the Long-Term Credit Bank, which is saddled with billions of
dollars in bad loans, was desperately looking for a rescue merger
to escape collapse.
A further rapid decline of the yen would threaten financial
stability in Asia and could escalate the economic turmoil in the
region to a new level, particularly if China moved to devalue its
currency.
Asian leaders have been unnerved by the prospect of China
devaluing its currency. A devaluation by China could lead to a
round of devaluations around the region, as other countries aim to
cheapen their exports, which have been a main source of recovery in
Asia.
President Clinton said on Friday that the impact of currency
instability on China played an important role in the decision by
United States authorities to intervene and support the value of the
yen last week.
China itself seems to have tried to bring about some coordinated
response on the decline of the yen and had publicly voiced concern
over the tumbling yen in the last two weeks.
In previous months, China had repeatedly pledged to the
international community that it would not devalue its currency to
support its exports. But as the yen tumbled in the last couple of
weeks, Dai Xianglong, China's central bank governor, suggested once
that China may be wavering in that commitment.
But some economists point out that it is also not fully in the
interests of China to devalue its currency because a game of
competitive devaluations would erode profits in China as well as
everywhere else. China, for instance, has a substantial amount of
loans in United States dollars, so that any devaluation would
immediately make those loans more expensive to pay back.
Partly for that reason, some economists have downplayed the role
that a potential Chinese currency devaluation played in the
decision last week by U.S. authorities to intervene to support the
yen.
The debut signals that Disney's status as the kingpin of
animation is likely to continue even amid stepped-up efforts by
rivals.
 The average fee for a bounced check is now $21.36, up from
$20.80 last October, according to a March survey of 350 U.S. banks
by Bank Rate Monitor.
 Eight of the Top 10 banks charge noncustomers who use their
automated teller machines, and 55 percent of all U.S. banks impose
such surcharges, up from 48 percent in October.
 Late payment and over-the-limit fees on credit cards have each
jumped from an average of $13 to about $20 in just 18 months,
according to RAM Research.
Some big banks including Fleet, First Union and Mellon now
charge as much as $25 to close a credit card account. Others charge
a $15 dormancy fee on accounts that are inactive for six months. If
you get a cash advance on a credit card, expect to pay up to 5
percent of the withdrawn amount in fees.
Banks still make more money on interest income the spread
between what they charge on loans and what they pay on deposits than on customer fees.
 But the interest-rate spread is narrowing, as banks face
growing competition from brokerage firms and mutual funds for
customer assets.
To make up for smaller spreads, banks are raising old fees and
coming up with new ones. As a result, fee income is rising four
times faster than interest income and now accounts for nearly 40
percent of bank income compared to about 32 percent a decade ago.
 On balance, banks are still raking it in. In the first quarter
of this year, U.S. bank profits soared 10 percent over the previous
year to a record $15.9 billion, according to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.
Since most of us do use banks, here are some steps you can take
to avoid fees.
 Despite all the mergers, there are still more than 9,000
commercial U.S. banks. There also are savings and loans,
brokerages, mutual funds and other options for financial service.
The 300 biggest banks often offer greater convenience and bigger
ATM networks than their smaller competitors . But on average, they
impose 15 percent higher fees for deposit accounts than smaller
banks, according to U.S. Public Interest Research Group.
Banks that offered the most expensive accounts in March were
Citibank of San Francisco and NationsBank, which recently agreed to
buy Bank of America, according Florida-based Bank Rate Monitor.
Marin building contractor William Kopiecki said he reads monthly
statements carefully and raises a ruckus if there's a problem. He
recently noticed that it took eight to 11 days for two checks he
wrote totaling $15,500 to be credited to his account at MBNA after
they were debited from his account at Citibank. After spotting the
long lag and complaining to Citibank, he was assured he would get
much of his lost interest returned.
For instance, if you rarely visit a teller, opt for an account
that offers unlimited checking, low minimum balance requirements
and low or no monthly fees as long as you bank by ATM, phone or
personal computer.
If you have one of these accounts and do end up using a live
teller when you could have used an ATM, you'll pay a fee that is
usually about $3 but could be as much as $9.50, according to Bank
Rate Monitor.
Even for full-service accounts, banks will often reduce or
eliminate fees if you maintain multiple accounts, keep a minimum
balance like $1,000 in your checking account or sign up for direct
deposit of your paycheck or Social Security payments.
The best credit card strategy is to pay off your bills each
month, thereby benefitting from use of the money (or float) during
the free grace period and no interest or fees.
Web sites that carry information on checking and credit card
rates and fees include Bank Rate Monitor (www.bankrate.com), RAM
Research (www.ramresearch.com) and Consumers' Checkbook
(www.checkbook.org).
 P RSatan,S just like in MatthewUs gospel, was foiled again
yesterday. P Hopefully for U.S. soccer, this humbling wonUt end up in
someoneUs sermon
2,000 years from now. P For the proud niche of soccer fans in the
United States, there should be
comfort in knowing that their grand game did not disgrace the
nation yesterday in Lyon, France. P No. By the time that the clock
ran out on IranUs 2-1 victory, much of the
American viewing audience was either (A) napping or (B) watching
golf on TV. P Ten years of trying to pick up the game by its
kneesocks, of bidding for
and then successfully staging the U94 World Cup, of trying to build
a U.S. team that could earn respect on the world stage Q and this
is what they get? P In Iran, where they once referred to us as
RThe Great Satan,S the victory
prompted midnight prayers and dancing in the streets. The Iranians
scored two goals, but huge points more for their sportsmanship and
the heart that they showed. P Here at home, alas, it was hard to
swallow. In terms of a future Q read
Rcorporate dollarsS Q the defeat may not have delivered a death
blow to soccer in this country. But at the moment, consider it down
and bleeding. P For one day, soccer had the U.S. viewing audience
mostly to itself. People
who didnUt know a soccer ball from a frozen ham suddenly had a
storyline they could sink their teeth into. A Ted Koppel kind of
game. To a lot of Americans, still, mention of Iran brings back
memories of the hostage crisis, the Ayatollah Khomeini and U.S.
flags being burned in the Tehran streets. P And what? You said
Team USA was heavily favored? P You bet they watched. P But it was more of the same, wasnUt it? The U.S. playersU
inability to put
the ball in the net turned into a night of frustration. They hit
the crossbar. They hit the goalposts Q three times. And now, after
one more World Cup match, they will hit the road. P Spare the
e-mails, please. TheyUve become trite. P After I penned a fairly light-hearted piece 12 days ago, teasing
how the
World Cup gets lost in the U.S. translation, I received a spate of
electronic dispatches rife with name-calling and high-handed piety. P Ron Pitney of Arlington wrote, RYour refusal to learn the game
amounts to
intellectual bankruptcy and until you take the time to really
understand the Tgame within the gameU you really should limit your
comments to those sports you understand!S P Ah, yes, the Rgame
within the gameS of soccer. At least two of the e-mail
writers claimed that soccer is now the preferred sport of
Rintelligent people,S and thus they understood perfectly why only
they grasped its nuances Q and, apparently, I didnUt. P While they
were memorizing Chaucer, I suppose, they must have missed the
fact that nowhere in the earlier column did I say I didnUt like
soccer, the apparent Official Game of Mensa. I simply strove to
make points about the World CupUs lack of scoring, particularly the
U.S. teamUs. And while praising World Cup U94 for its success,
despite the rest of the worldUs skepticism, I noted how the great
event still doesnUt captivate the same throngs on our shores. P Suddenly, I think I was on the same mailing list as Salman
Rushdie. P RYou people are morons if you canUt see that soccer is HUGE with
an
educated segment of the population,S read one of the unsigned
notes. P I give up. What donUt we morons understand? P ThereUs offsides. ThereUs corner kicks. There are yellow cards
and red
cards. Soccer is not rocket science. As has been proven many times
at the World Cup, the coaches donUt even need to speak the playersU
language. P The best e-mail comment, as it turned out, came from a
truly erudite
gentleman named Norm Biven. He called my attention to the
commercial that Nike is running during the Cup telecasts. It shows
the defending world champs from Brazil stuck during a flight delay
at the Rio airport. They begin playing with the soccer ball, while
a samba from Sergio Mendes plays in the background. P They and the
ball go through X-ray machines, under taxiing jet wings, down
baggage ramps, before the worldUs best player, Ronaldo, finishes
with a footwork exhibition that would make the Globetrotters
envious. The punch line is that Ronaldo gets to the terminal gate,
kicks Q and clangs it off the metal post. P The kids watching
frown. Ronaldo shrugs. P RJust because RonaldoUs shot clangs off the post at the end
doesnUt make it
any less entertaining,S Biven wrote. RItUs not the scoring. ItUs
the samba, silly.S P I know. But again, thanks to days like
yesterday, it gets lost in the
translation. P Americans love underdogs, but they enjoy winning
more. The samba is fine,
but the preferred tune, last time I checked, was I We Will Rock
You. P TennisU Davis Cup was big once here, too Q until the United States
started losing it. P U.S. soccer blew it big time yesterday. It
doesnUt take a genius to see
that itUs going to be a tough four years.
There are about 165,000 ATMs in the United States and they
handle 900 million transaction a month, or nearly double the number
a decade ago.
Despite all the publicity about ATM fees, cash machines have yet
to be the financial windfall so many banks expected.
An average-sized bank might spend $20 million to $25 million a
year on a network of 1,000 ATMs, according to McKinsey. That's a
net cost of $20,000 to $25,000 per machine after taking into
account fees charged to customers and other banks.
It's not surprising that ATMs are expensive to buy, maintain and
keep stocked. Average annual operating costs per machine, including
transaction processing expenses, depreciation and maintenance, run
about $41,000 per year. But total revenue is only about $18,000,
according to McKinsey.
That's a shortfall of $23,000 per machine which banks are trying
to reduce by selling products such as stamps and imposing
transaction fees.
Despite an unprecedented wave of mega-mergers, there are still
more than 9,000 U.S. commercial banks and the number of branches
actually climbed from 41,881 in 1984 to 59,091 last year.
In 1985, McKinsey consultant Asheet Mehta said it cost banks
$11.60 per month to serve the average retail customer for 6.3
transactions, including 4.4 visits to the bank and 1.9 visits to an
ATM. In 1993, it cost $14.80 to serve the average customer for 10.8
transactions a month, including 3.3 at an ATM and 5.3 inside the
bank.
In 1995, U.S. commercial banks spent $20 billion on technology
and by the year 2000 the annual investment is expected to hit $25
billion. It is true that serving customers with new technology
helps lower transaction costs. For example, Mehta says it costs
banks an average of $2.50 if you talk to a teller versus 40 cents
if you use an ATM, 24 cents if you use a telephone voice response
unit and 10 cents if you bank by PC.
Some banks, including Wells Fargo, sell stamps for an 11 percent
markup as well as ski-lift and other tickets to help make ends
meet.
Banks stress that they are not public utilities, that no one is
forced to use their ATMs and they are entitled to charge for the
convenience they offer. Nevertheless, there has been an outcry
against surcharges and Senate Banking Committee Chairman Alfonse
D'Amato, R-N.Y.) has even called for a ban against them.
ISLAMORADA, Fla. Surrounded by a forest of West Indian
hardwood and exquisitely blue waterways, Juanita Greene's
efficiency cottage in Key Largo seemed an idyllic place in which to
pass her retirement years.
So less than two months ago, she moved to the greater Miami
area, to a neighborhood she describes as quiet and peaceful.
Now, new regulations governing the use of the personal
watercraft in the Keys, one of the United States' most popular
water-sports locations, seek to prevent other residents from
following Ms. Greene's example.
On June 10, the Monroe County Commission approved an ordinance
that prohibits operating the craft within 1,200 feet of 14 beaches
and resort spots from Key West to Key Largo. The personal
watercraft moored on such shores must idle out to the perimeter
area at speeds of about five miles an hour to avoid making waves
and noise.
But Karen Lee, an environmental advocate who pushed for curbs on
personal watercraft, said the measure covers only 2 percent of the
shoreline of the Keys. Although some of it is residential, other
parts are wildlife sanctuaries.
The association, which represents five manufacturers of personal
watercraft, plans to file suit in a federal court asking that the
ordinance be repealed, Ms. Mathews said. She would not disclose the
terms of the complaint.
Some areas, like Duck Key, have asked to have their waters
included in the ordinance, and the County Commission will review
those requests next month.
The state of Florida has already banned personal watercraft in
several areas, including the Everglades, but similar restrictions
in the tourist-dependent Keys have met strong opposition. The
islands have 65,000 permanent residents but about 3 million
tourists each year. The recent vote followed two years of studies
and heated debate that pitted some who favored a ban on the
watercraft against industry representatives who opposed curbs.
One in every three new boats sold in the country is a personal
watercraft, the Boat Owners Association of the United States said.
Last year, more than 36 percent of recreational boating accidents
in Florida involved personal watercraft, compared with less than 15
percent in 1990, according to the Florida Marine Patrol.
Industry representatives in the Keys have said that personal
watercraft should face the same rules as other watercraft rather
than being singled out. They have maintained that education is the
best way to ensure that such watercraft are used in a safe and less
obtrusive way.
Ms. Mathews, the industry representative, said manufacturers
would begin next year to produce lines of vehicles that make about
50 percent less noise. But, she added, personal watercraft already
meet federal and state sound regulations.
Mayor Jack London of Monroe County, which comprises the Keys,
said the new ordinance might be extended to compel businesses that
rent personal watercraft to require that customers demonstrate
experience.
Among those applauding any restrictions on personal watercraft
are the local fishermen, whose prey redfish, bonefish and tarpon are frightened from their grasp every time a personal watercraft
turns the still, shallow sea-grass flats where they dwell into the
equivalent of a hurricane.
The trick is to hook computers together over existing phone
wires so family members can surf the Web together, share printers
or shoot one another in computer game competitions.
The Home Phoneline Networking Alliance enjoys support from such
giants as Advanced Micro Devices, ATT, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard,
IBM and Intel Corp. It promises to get inexpensive home networking
technology into stores by the fourth quarter of 1998 in time for
holiday shopping sprees.
As many as 15 million U.S. households already have two or more
PCs, but only a tiny fraction have networks to link them up. A
major deterrent is the complexity and mess of wiring up old houses a job that can easily cost as much as a new computer if done by a
contractor.
If the alliance has its way, consumers will be able to create an
instant network simply by plugging their computers into a phone
jack. They will need to install a special network card into their
computer or buy an inexpensive device that connects between a
parallel or USB port and a phone jack.
Such devices are expected to cost under $100 per computer, said
Cyrus Namazi, a marketing manager at AMD in Sunnyvale and chairman
of the alliance.
Tom Rhinelander, an analyst with Forrester Research in
Cambridge, Mass., said he projected that more than 7 million U.S.
homes will have computer networks by the year 2002.
The alliance is embracing technology devised by Tut Systems in
Pleasant Hill, a privately held company founded in 1991 by Martin
Graham and Matt Taylor, a professor and graduate student at the
University of California at Berkeley.
Three weeks ago, Tut announced that it received $15 million in
new investments from three strategic partners: Microsoft Corp.,
Tokyo-based Itochu International, and ATT Ventures. Microsoft
announced a marketing alliance with Tut last year.
A Sunnyvale startup, Epigram, is working on phone networking
technology operating at 10 megabits per second, equal to the speed
of most common corporate networks. Epigram is a founder of the
alliance.
Many other companies are pushing alternative home networking
strategies. Utah-based Intelogis Inc., for instance, sells devices
for under $100 that plug into electrical sockets in the wall and
send data over home power lines. But its network tops out at 350
kilobits per second and requires encryption to prevent neighbors
from picking up the signals on their power lines.
In March, the Home Radio Frequency Working Group, which includes
some of the same players in today's announcement, said it would
promote wireless home networks, using radio links to connect
computers, printers and other devices.
A Southern California startup, ShareWave, promises this fall to
make available this wireless equipment capable of multimegabit
speeds, but the cost is likely to be several hundred dollars per
computer. Its technology could be useful for reaching rooms with no
phone jacks or mobile computer users lounging by the pool.
 P SAN FRANCISCO Q The Olympic Club added to its U.S. Open
legacy yesterday
when another 54-hole leader stumbled down the stretch and lost the
tournament. P For those counting at home, the course is now
four-for-four in producing
dramatic, comeback winners at the Open. The latest to fall, Payne
Stewart, added his name to a list that also includes Ben Hogan
(1955), Arnold Palmer (1966) and Tom Watson (1987). All were reeled
in at Olympic by players with fewer career victories on the PGA
Tour. P RIUd say the golf course won. The golf course lived up to
its reputation,S
Stewart said after flushing a four-stroke lead in the final round
and losing by a stroke to Lee Janzen. P Stewart joined Tom Lehman,
his final-round playing partner, as the two
sympathetic characters in the latest Olympic melodrama. P Unable
to control his driver down the stretch, Stewart hit his fewest
number of fairways (six) and greens in regulation (nine) of any
round during Open week while ballooning to a 74. Lehman, a
sentimental favorite who was playing in the final group at the Open
for a fourth consecutive year, fell short once again in his Open
quest with a closing 75. P RI said [Saturday] that if I played the
type of game Payne Stewart can
play, IUd be standing here with the trophy. And I didnUt do that,S
Stewart said. RPlus, Lee Janzen shot 68 on a day when nobody else
in contention could break par. He deserves to win. P RIUm
disappointed. But this isnUt going to change my life. I didnUt play
well enough to win. ItUs as simple as that. And it wonUt take me
very long at all to get over this. IUll still be able to sleep
tonight.S P Lehman indicated he may be missing a few winks for the
foreseeable future
because he was Rirritated with myselfS after falling short in the
Open for a fourth consecutive year. The failed 54-hole leader at
the past three Opens, Lehman began yesterdayUs final round four
strokes in back of Stewart and never made a birdie. P He placed
fifth, which comes on the heels of finishes of third (1995),
second (1996) and third (1997). P By his calculations, Lehman
never gave himself a decent birdie chance until
the 11th hole. Then, he failed to capitalize on three in a row. P RBy the time I made bogey on 14, I knew I was history,S Lehman
said. RFor
the last two days, IUve had the hardest time reading the greens. I
could never tell if we were going uphill or downhill. Therefore, I
never came close to making one.S P Lehman left the course
displaying a unique mix of iron-willed determination
and heart-tugging frustration. P RIf I can keep playing this well
in this tournament for the next four or
five years, I think IUm going to win one. Or two, or three or
four,S Lehman said. RBut the last thing I want to do right now is
play golf. This is a big tournament and IUm disappointed. IUm a
little bit irritated with myself. ItUs very frustrating to go
through this again, IUll be honest with you.S
 A: A number of states such as Colorado and New Hampshire have
laws prohibiting discrimination against people for lawful
activities such as smoking.
But California isn't one so those two firms did have a right
to reject you for being a smoker.
Companies have a lot of leeway in deciding whom to hire as long
as they don't discriminate on the basis of race, gender, religion,
age, sexual orientation or disability. Ideally, firms base their
hiring decisions on things like competence or credentials. But
other subjective factors often come into play, too from the
personal rapport that a candidate establishes with the boss to a
candidate's appearance or mannerisms.
It's certainly harder to be a smoker in the workplace today.
California law bans smoking in workplaces with five people or more.
Some places like North Miami, Fla., have even passed laws barring
smokers from working for city government, in an effort to improve
employees' health and cut insurance costs.
You should take a hard look at whether smoking was the real
reason you didn't get those jobs. Maybe something else in your
attitude or background turned the companies off, and they were
using smoking as an excuse.
Or maybe you really do need to deal with an odor problem because
of your smoking.
 Q: My company recently adopted a new rule saying that if you
take time off, it must be a minimum of four hours. There are times
when I need just one or two hours off for personal business, but
they say I must take a full four hours. They say this new system is
easier for the timekeeper. Don't we as employees have a right to
take off small amounts of time?
 A: Companies must pay their workers for all the time they
actually put in. So if you took two hours off and the company
docked your pay as if you'd taken four hours off, that would be
illegal. You could file a complaint with the California Labor
Commissioner, at (415) 557-7878.
But that doesn't sound like the case here. The company is
docking you four hours' pay, but it's also telling you to take off
the full four hours. So you don't have a legal claim for unpaid
wages.
Nor do you have any legal right to take off an hour here or
there for personal business.
Requiring workers to take time off in four-hour blocks may be
necessary in a factory setting, Bradstreet said, if replacement
workers must be hired by the half-day or full-day.
But otherwise, a policy like this actually might end up hurting
the company by keeping workers off the job for more time than
necessary, and by undermining the morale of employees who feel that
they're being unfairly treated.
 Q: I was hospitalized because of complications with a
pregnancy in 1990. At the time, my employer told me that I didn't
qualify for any kind of disability benefits and that my only choice
was to resign. I followed his advice and submitted my resignation
letter. Now I've learned that not only should I have received
disability, but I also should have been rehired after my illness. I
lost almost $10,000 because of this. Do I have any recourse?
 A: Back in 1990, the state and federal laws requiring
companies to give their employees 12 weeks off for serious illness
weren't yet in effect.
But California did have a pregnancy disability law requiring
companies with five or more employees to provide four months of
unpaid leave to employees who are disabled by pregnancy.
If you'd known about that law, you could have taken unpaid time
off to recover from your hospitalization without losing your job.
You also could have applied for state disability insurance, which
would have paid part of your salary while you were off work.
Unfortunately, so much time has passed that now it's too late to
try and recover damages from your employer for misinforming you
about your rights.
The lesson here? If you think you've been denied family or
medical leave illegally, talk to a lawyer or file a complaint
without delay.
Equal Rights Advocates offers free advice and counseling on
women's employment issues, at (800) 839-4372. So does the Women's
Employment Rights law clinic of Golden Gate University, at (415)
442-6647. And the Employment Law Center offers free legal advice to
both male and female low-income workers at (415) 864-8208.
Send your work and career questions to Ilana DeBare, Workways,
San Francisco Chronicle, 901 Mission St., San Francisco 94103. Or
send e-mail to workways sfgate.com. Or call (415) 764-2815. We
can't respond to each query in person, but we will answer as many
in print as we can. 
NEW YORK Detectives are searching for a 25-year-old man
accused of stabbing his former girlfriend in her family's home in
Middle Village, Queens, Sunday morning and then turning the knife
on the woman's parents, killing her mother, when they tried to
rescue her.
Deputy Inspector Martin Johnson of Queens detectives said police
were searching for Heather Grech's former boyfriend, Robert
Parsell, who they believe committed the crime after his attempt to
reconcile with Ms. Grech failed.
Detectives said that Parsell, a milk truck driver, apparently
was upset after Ms. Grech left him last week and moved, with their
1{-year-old son, back to her parents' home at 69-26 61st Rd.,
police said. He grew desperate Saturday, they said, when he heard
that she had been seen with another man.
At that point Ms. Grech's older brother, David, awoke to the
sound of screams, ran downstairs and chased Parsell out of the
house, police said.
The brutal crime stunned neighbors in Middle Village, a quiet
community of two-family homes. Anne Russo, 35, said she was walking
home from a diner with her boyfriend when she saw Tristan Grech run
out of his house, bleeding from his arms and shoulders.
Neighbors said Kathleen Grech worked as a bookkeeper in
Manhattan and that her husband worked as a limousine driver. They
worshiped regularly at Our Lady of Hope Roman Catholic Church. On
Sunday, a priest from the church went to the house to administer
last rites to Mrs. Grech.
Heather Grech and Robert Parsell had been dating since she was a
student at the Mary Louis Academy, neighbors said. Police said Ms.
Grech had tried to leave him before, but they added that they had
never received reports of domestic violence.
For the last two months they lived in a three-bedroom apartment
on the second floor of a house at 64-30 65th Place. Neighbors there
said they disliked Parsell, whom they described as antisocial, but
added that they were surprised to hear he was wanted for murder.
Because of its strong store sales and easy-to-understand
business, Restoration Hardware may have single-handedly restored a
modicum of faith in the withering initial offering market.
The IPO for the Corte Madera-based home furnishings retailer
sprang out of the box Friday with a vengeance. After pricing shares
at $19 a dollar higher than anticipated by underwriters Restoration closed its first day of trading at an impressive $26.25
a share.
And while a 38 percent rise on the first day of trading is
outstanding by almost any measure, the jump is particularly
impressive since it arrives amid a moribund IPO climate.
For one thing, it's not really a hardware store at all. While it
started in Eureka 18 years ago as a seller of decorative doorknobs
and hard-to-find drawer handles for folks refurbishing old homes,
the company now with 44 stores in 21 states has evolved into an
innovative merchant of stylish home furnishings that don't
necessarily cost an arm and a leg.
You can bet that mall developers and landlords can. They are in
lust with the retailer and its customers' wallets. In fact, both
mall and strip center developers are interested in bringing
Restoration to their projects, which gives the merchant a bundle of
opportunities to open new stores in some of the choicest spots in
the country. Many retailers are typecast as suitable only for
regional malls or just strip centers, but seldom both, retail
analysts say. But Restoration busts through that barrier,
essentially allowing the company to double its options for choosing
locations.
And because adding more stores is critical to the performance of
most retail stocks, prime real estate locations can drive a
company's sales and profits.
In many cases, the amount of rent paid by retailers is linked to
their sales performance. And in recent years, the registers have
been ringing big-time at Restoration's stores. Check out these
numbers:
For the fiscal year ended January 31, Restoration's average
sales per square foot of selling space were $583. In comparison,
stores in the top malls in the country report sales of $400 to $450
per square foot, says Location-net's Huber.
Last year, Restoration recorded sales of $97.9 million and
operating profits of $3.2 million. And the all-important same-store
sales figures have risen an average of 19 percent annually during
the past two fiscal years.
What's more, Restoration plans to open 25 new stores by the end
of this fiscal year and another 30 stores in 1999.
 But there is some potential danger. While aggressive growth
is good in the eyes of fund managers, especially during a booming
economy, it also presents risk. Restoration doesn't have a long
track record showing that it can roll out new stores at such a
rapid clip. Cloning the culture of the stores is essential for
successful expansion.
The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.
KOSOVO-REBELS (Junik, Serbia) War has a choreography that only
its participants understand. Fighters, locked in an embrace, feel
out the daily beat and rhythm until the set is shattered by a surge
of anarchic violence. Such a dance is underway in Kosovo, where
armed peasant farmers, joined by hundreds of rebels that have
picked up weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania,
face down some 50,000 government soldiers and special police. By
Chris Hedges.
CHINA-CLINTON-ASSESS As Clinton prepares for his summit in
China, the central foreign policy drama in Washington is the
increasing congressional furor over the administration's engagement
policy, in particular the sense that Clinton is damaging national
security in his eagerness to boost relations with Beijing. By
Steven Erlanger.
CENTENARIANS (Phoenix) Centenarians aren't what they used to
be. There are so many between 30,000 and 50,000, according to
demographers, up from the 1980 estimate of 15,000 that it's hard
to get a televised 100th birthday greeting from Willard Scott, who
mentions 12 every week on the Today Show. Every week about 90 new
centenarians are disappointed. Centenarians are the country's
fastest growing age group, with projections that by the middle of
the next century more than 600,000 Americans will be over 100. By
Sara Rimer.
CLINTON-STARR Five months after investigators began exploring
allegations of a relationship between Clinton and Monica Lewinsky,
the former White House intern's new lawyers appear to have returned
to the same standoff with Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel,
that her previous lawyers confronted. Details of the negotiations
between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's legal team, which appeared Sunday
in the Washington Post and were confirmed by people with knowledge
of the investigation, suggest that the two sides are still far from
an agreement that would lead to her testimony. By David E. Sanger.
CONGRESS-SPEND A curtain-raiser on the appropriations process,
which is finally under way in both houses, with floor votes to
start soon. These are the only bills Congress must pass, so here's
a look at what's in them, what are the likely collisions, House vs.
Senate and Congress vs. White House. By Katharine Q. Seelye.
INFLATION-PRICES (Undated) While inflation over all is at its
lowest rate since the 1960s, prices have been rising rather
noticeably in recent months for a variety of everyday items from
fast-food hamburgers to auto maintenance and dental care. The
increases have been sharp enough not only to catch people's
attention but to provoke their annoyance. By Louis Uchitelle.
IBM-CHIPS (Undated) Without fanfare but with potentially
far-reaching significance for the semiconductor industry, IBM has
begun the industry's first large-scale production of a type of chip
that may reduce prices and improve performance and portability for
cellular phones and other wireless communications devices. By John
Markoff.
VH1-MEDIA (Undated) In the four years since John Sykes took
over, cable channel VH1 has found a formula that has significantly
increased its ratings and driven up profits. Indeed, VH1 has the
highest concentration of advertisers' most desirable viewers, those
aged 18 to 49. As a result, advertisers from American Express to
Lexus have added VH1 to their buying plans. By Bill Carter.
SMART-CARDS-SECURITY (Undated) For the last year, Paul Kocher
has kept big credit-card companies and banks on edge by sharing
details of his discovery of a way to break into the newest version
of smart cards credit-card size devices that contain a tiny
computer chip and can be used for a variety of purposes including
storing so-called digital cash. By Peter Wayner.
TIME-CNN-MEDIA (Undated) Doubts about the accuracy of a recent
article in Time magazine that was written by Cable News Network
journalists are serious enough that Time's editors have ordered a
further investigation. The article asserted that the U.S. military
dropped lethal nerve gas on a Laotian village in 1970, during the
Vietnam war, as part of a secret mission to kill American
defectors. By Lawrie Mifflin.
DIGICOM-COLUMN (Undated) In a climate where any regulation of
the Internet in its commercial infancy is considered high treason,
many law experts are dismayed at the tidal wave of restrictive
legislation governing everything from software filters to digital
copyrights and public-domain information being drafted and
enacted by states and the federal government. By Denise Caruso.
BERKSHIRE-MARKETPLACE (Undated) It could be Warren Buffett's
biggest challenge yet. Not the acquisition of General Re Corp., the
reinsurance giant that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to buy last
week for $21.7 billion in stock. Rather, his taking on the often
unruly Wall Street professionals who, as part of the deal, will
become holders of 15 percent of the shares of Berkshire Hathaway,
Buffett's far-flung corporate empire. By Edward Wyatt.
TAX-REFORM (Topeka, Kan.) The new way that taxes are collected
in this Midwest state capital may offer taxpayers everywhere a
glimpse of what the future may be like in dealing with the Internal
Revenue Service. By David Cay Johnston.
SAN FRANCISCO Tom Lehman had hoped, finally, to close the
circle that had opened here at Olympic in the 1987 U.S. Open. But
he didn't.
As Lee Janzen won the 98th Open Sunday, Lehman again emerged as
a sympathetic figure. He is now golf's version of the Buffalo
Bills, the team that lost four straight Super Bowls. Not that he
should be considered a loser. He won the 1996 British Open. But
four times in the last four years, he has been in the hunt going
into the last round of the U.S. Open.
In the last pairing with Payne Stewart Sunday, Lehman teed off
four shots behind. But he soared to a 75, tying for fifth after
finishing third, second and third the previous years.
By then Lehman realized that another 68 (which he shot in the
first and third rounds) would have edged Janzen's par 280 for the
trophy.
Nobody in golf knew him then. He was an assistant pro at Wood
Ranch near Los Angeles, after having earned a total of only $39,000
in three years on the PGA Tour. After qualifying for the Open, he
arrived at Olympic with Melissa, now his wife, along with his
brother Mike and his caddie, Buck Buchanan.
He didn't make the cut. The next year, the Lehmans took their
last $8,000 out of the bank to go to South Africa, where he
finished third in that nation's Open, a $20,000 payday. In 1990 he
joined the Hogan (now Nike) Tour, winning four times and emerging
as its leading money winner to qualify for the PGA Tour.
Since then the quiet, modest Lehman has earned more than $5
million in prize money. He also has endorsement contracts that
guarantee him at least $5 million a year for the next five years.
But for many golfers, the Open circle can be the most difficult
to close, because the Open is arguably the most difficult of the
four majors. The rough is too thick, the greens too fast.
Sam Snead never did win the Open, blowing to an 8 on the final
hole at the Spring Mill course of the Philadelphia Country Club in
1939 when all he needed was a par 5. Arnold Palmer streaked to a
final-round 65 to win at Cherry Hills in Denver in 1960, then lost
three 18-hole playoffs. Tom Watson holed a memorable chip-in to win
at Pebble Beach in 1982.
Over the years, Bobby Jones, Ben Hogan and Jack Nicklaus share
the Open record with four victories (along with Willie Anderson
nearly a century ago). Proof that Jones, Hogan and Nicklaus were
the best of their respective eras.
But no other recent golfer has had the elusive opportunity to
win the world's most prestigious championship more often than this
big man from Minnesota who now lives in Scottsdale, Ariz., with
Melissa and their three children.
In the past three Opens, he had been paired with Jeff Maggert
last year at Congressional, with Steve Jones at Oakland Hills and
with Greg Norman at Shinnecock Hills.
Some golfers would be tormented by being so close at the Open
and yet so far. Not Lehman.
But now Tom Lehman, who will turn 40 next March, must wait for
next year's Open at Pinehurst, N.C., which he is already thinking
about.
SCHOLARSHIP SCAMS: You can now find advice on how to avoid
college scholarship and financial aid scams at www.finaid.org, the
Website set up by the National Association of Student Financial Aid
Administrators. According to the association, a growing number of
scam artists are preying on parents and students, using such
tactics as hefty application charges and demands for administrative
fees before a mysterious academic prize can be claimed.
RETIREMENT PLANS: Most Americans rely on employers rather than
themselves or Social Security to finance retirement, a new survey
shows. The study, conducted by the nonprofit Certified Financial
Planner Board of Standards, suggests that 67 percent of Americans
depend heavily on employers to fund their golden years, compared
with 10 percent who depend mostly on personal retirement plans and
3 percent who rely on Social Security. The survey, which also lists
the top reasons Americans don't achieve their retirement goals, is
available at www.cfp-board.org.
LONG POND, Pa. For almost a month now, Jeremy Mayfield has
been atop the NASCAR world, holding on to a small lead in the
Winston Cup point standing by consistently finishing near the
front.
Still, something was missing. Mayfield was in first place, but
he had made it there without a trip to victory lane this season. In
fact, he had not won a race in four years, 125 starts, on NASCAR's
top circuit.
But Sunday, in a messy, drawn-out, rain-delayed Pocono 500,
Mayfield finally justified his reign by holding off Jeff Gordon's
late charge, claiming his first career victory. Gordon was second,
seconds behind, and Dale Jarrett finished third.
It was an emotional scene on victory lane as Mayfield climbed
from his Ford Taurus. He hugged and kissed his wife, then got
mobbed by a jubilant group from his Mobil 1 team, which also got
its first victory.
For race car drivers, there are few things in life sweeter than
their first triumph. And those emotions were not lost on Mayfield,
who got a little choked up after the race.
Mayfield, who led for 122 of the 200 laps around the 2.5-mile
tri-oval, took the lead for good on Lap 179, passing Darrell
Waltrip with a brilliantly executed restart after the race's eighth
yellow flag. Moments later, Gordon passed Waltrip and began his
assault on Mayfield.
Gordon, the pole-sitter, track record-holder and two-time
defending champion who was favored to win Sunday, drove his
Chevrolet Monte Carlo to within a car-length of Mayfield with four
laps to go. All Gordon needed was for Mayfield to miss a shift,
take a wrong line on the track, or lose concentration for a moment.
But Mayfield maintained the composure he has become known for, and
Gordon's car lacked the horsepower to mount a serious charge.
The race was slowed by nine cautions, and was delayed by almost
an hour and a half because of showers. Mayfield's average speed was
117.801 miles an hour.
Rusty Wallace's hard luck at Pocono continued as he was
black-flagged for a false start, then blew an engine a few laps
later. Wallace, who started second behind Gordon, illegally passed
him en route to the opening green flag. Then, on Lap 14, Wallace's
engine failed after he pushed his car to the limit to make up lost
ground. He finished 42nd, dropping from fifth to sixth place in the
Winston Cup points race, 216 points behind Mayfield.
It appeared that Gordon, who was forced into a concrete barrier
by Wallace three weeks ago at Richmond, realized Wallace had sped
ahead of him and did not fully accelerate at the start. If that was
the case, consider the score settled.
NEW YORK A year after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that public
school teachers in New York City could hold remedial and other
supplementary classes inside religious schools, rather than in
oversize vans off the school grounds, school and union officials
say there have been no complaints from those teachers.
The only problem has involved classroom space: Because some
parochial schools did not have room for the additional classes, a
third have retained some of the vans, which are leased by the Board
of Education, and are expected to do so again next school year. The
price tag, estimated at $5.1 million in the school year ending this
month, is being paid by the federal government.
For most of the more than 150 religious schools in New York City
that receive the teachers' services, the constitutional lines
between church and state have blurred a bit this year, albeit
subtly. On Friday, for example, Bernadine DeCarlo, a social worker
employed by the Board of Education, weaved through the hallways of
St. Luke's School in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, past
crucifixes and statues of the Virgin Mary.
Under federal law, public schools must provide special services like tutoring in English as a second language or special
counseling to all students who qualify, whether in public,
parochial or other private schools. From 1965, when the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act was passed, until 1985, those services
were typically provided in parochial classrooms by public school
teachers, who took their assignments voluntarily.
But in 1985, the Supreme Court found that the coexistence and
monitoring of secular and religious activities within the religious
school buildings had led to an unconstitutional entanglement of
church and state. The court ruled that the teachers could not hold
classes inside religious schools. In response, the idea of teaching
in vans was conceived.
During the 12 years between the decisions, New York City spent
$100 million in federal education aid to lease the ubiquitous red,
white and blue vans, each 40 by 8 feet, that were parked outside
Catholic, Jewish, Lutheran and other religious schools, their
generators always humming.
At St. Luke's, a brown-brick building with 363 pupils in
prekindergarten through eighth grade, the principal, Sister Pat
Howell, was able to partition an upstairs classroom with file
cabinets to make room this year for the classes in English as a
second language and remedial reading.
Nonetheless, until more space is renovated, Lee Fettner
continues to teach as many as 10 remedial-math students at a time
in a van that is little bigger than a motor home and sits outside
the school's 139th Street exit.
Like most Japanese, Iizuka doesn't buy stocks or mutual funds.
Instead, she has socked away her savings of about $40,000 in two
bank accounts that pay less than 1 percent interest annually almost the equivalent of sticking the money under the mattress.
New foreign companies seem to join the fray daily, with the
latest link up being Travelers Group Inc.'s proposal to buy 25
percent of brokerage firm Nikko Securities Co. Banks are scheduled
to start selling funds by year-end, and Fidelity and others already
sell their funds from rented spaces inside individual Tokyo
branches of prominent banks.
The pot of gold for Fidelity and the others is the more than $9
trillion in personal assets owned by Japanese individuals, the
largest reservoir of wealth in the world.
In the midst of a nine-year bear market, Japanese have placed
nearly 60 percent of that massive nest egg is in low-yielding
savings and post office accounts, and invested less than 10 percent
in stocks or mutual funds, known locally as investment trusts. Now,
as banks and a major brokerage have gone bankrupt, Japanese are so
concerned about protecting their money that they are buying home
safes at a record pace.
The mutual fund companies hope to attract risk-averse Japanese
investors by exploiting fears of a collapsing retirement system.
They are betting that by 1999 Japanese will gain direct control of
their retirement funds through the adoption a tax-sheltered scheme
similar to the 401(k) plan that has spurred the meteoric rise of
personal investment in America by making it easy to buy mutual
funds.
Japanese employees have traditionally accepted long working
hours because they believed the company would take care of them for
life. Now a sluggish economy and miserable stock market are leading
to questions about the sustainability of such an arrangement.
While the potential rewards for addressing such concerns are
vast, the foreign mutual fund companies will have to flex all of
their marketing muscles to convince Japanese consumers to make
mutual funds a way of life.
The Japanese reluctance to gamble money on stocks is intensified
by a market that has lost an average of 6 percent annually since
1989. The Nikkei index of 225 stocks has plunged from a peak of
almost 39,000 to less than 15,600.
Japan has also yet to be exposed to the kind of hype that has
added to the American vocabulary terms such as asset allocation,
long-term investing and risk assesment. Funds in Japan were
previously available only through brokerages, which tried to boost
commissions by encouraging frequent buying and selling.
Still, the foreign securities companies seem relatively credible
in a country that has been shaken by financial scandals and the
collapse of financial institutions. Fidelity is promoting its funds
in a series of full-page newspaper ads that portray the company as
a fresh place to start in a new investment era.
Fidelity says the response has exceeded expectations. The
company on April 1 began its direct marketing efforts with a
toll-free phone number that more than 3,000 people used in the
first week alone.
Fidelity has purchased land in Tochigi Prefecture, a three hour
train ride from Tokyo, for future expansion. Merrill paid up to
$300 million for 33 retail brokerage outlets formally owned by the
defunct Yamaichi Securities, and hired some 2,000 of the firm's
employees.
Such a strategy may be appropriate, as the companies are laying
the foundation for takeoff when the Japanese markets revive.
This article was made possible by a grant from the United States
Japan Foundation of New York and the Asia Journalists Program at
the University of California at Berkeley's Graduate School of
Journalism. 
Even as relatives of the two men winced at how public the
couple's private lives had become, they agreed with Adolph
Galluccio, Michael's father, who said that the attention was
worthwhile if it helped other families to avoid alienation from
their gay children.
Along the way to adopting their son, Adam, who is now 3 years
old, they became accidental advocates with a monthly newsletter
sent to 500 subscribers, a World Wide Web page
(www.gaynj.net/galluccio/) and an agent who has booked speaking
engagements around the country.
Neary three years ago, the two men became the foster parents of
Adam. When they tried to adopt the boy formally, New Jersey child
welfare officials assented, as long as they did it separately in
two distinct and costly legal procedures. Under New Jersey law,
same-sex couples and unmarried heterosexual couples had no legal
standing that would allow them to adopt jointly.
The couple challenged the law in court. Last October, Judge
Sybil Moses of Superior Court in Bergen County granted the joint
adoption, saying it was in the best interest of the child. Two
months later, all legal barriers to joint adoption by unmarried
same-sex and heterosexual couples were removed in a broader consent
decree. New Jersey became the first state to establish a policy
treating gay and unmarried couples the same way it treats married
couples regarding adoptions.
Only two states New Hampshire and Florida specifically bar
adoptions by gay couples. The recognition of Holden and Galluccio
as a family was seen by many as a step toward greater recognition
of gay unions.
After the consent decree in December, the calls began flooding
in, Galluccio and Holden-Galluccio said in an interview before
Sunday's ceremony. There were tearfully whispered encouragements
from frightened and closeted gay men and plaudits from gay high
school and college students who called the men heroes. The couple
said they started feeling responsible for people and stayed in the
public eye.
Holden-Galluccio said that the couple had been trying hard to
hold on to the spiritual and personal significance of Sunday's
ceremony amid the notoriety that had seized their lives. But the
personal and the spiritual kept intersecting with the public and
the political. The two men draped yellow-flowered leis around their
necks and those of the clergymen and women and family members. The
leis were gifts from Joe Melillo and Pat Lagon, two gay men in
Hawaii who have sued for the right to a legally recognized
marriage.
NEW YORK Seeking to break the city school system's recent
pattern of 11 leaders in 15 years, Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew
will soon ask the Board of Education to consider a two-year
extension to his contract, which is due to expire in July 1999.
