NEW YORK Kenneth Joseph Lenihan, a New York researchsociologist who helped refine the scientific methods used incriminology, died May 25 at his home in Manhattan.
He was 69.Lenihan retired in 1995 as an associate professor of sociologyat John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
He had joined the facultyin 1980, after earlier stints as a researcher at ColumbiaUniversity's Bureau of Applied Social Research, the Vera Instituteof Justice in New York and the Bureau of Social Science Research inWashington.He brought his expertise to the study of recidivism rates amongcriminal offenders.
He conducted a study in Baltimore, called theLife Project, for the U.S. Department of Labor in the early 1970s.Lenihan was born in Queens, and graduated from Columbia's Schoolof General Studies in 1960.
He also earned his M.A.
and Ph.D. insociology at Columbia, the latter in 1974.Lenihan is survived by two sons, Andrew of Miami, and William ofManhattan; a daughter, Jean Lenihan of Seattle; four sisters,Eileen McEwan of Houston, Moira Earhart of North Carolina, JeanDobson of Bay Shore, N.Y., and Sue Adams of Cape May, N.J.; andthree grandchildren.NEW YORK When Jack Lin heard his winning bid for a newlyminted taxi medallion announced at City Hall last September, hefelt a flush of love for his adopted country.But Lin's heavily financed $231,791 investment has been lookinga little risky since Thursday, when the commission steeplyincreased insurance requirements and dropped the thresholds atwhich cabbies can lose their licenses.
With a requirement to setaside another $100,000 for accident victims and even lowersuspension thresholds likely to be voted on this month, it couldget riskier still.Of the tens of thousands of taxi and livery drivers and ownershaving to deal with the commission's new safety regulations, the5,000 owner-drivers of yellow cabs, who have neither bosses norworkers to cushion the impact of the changes, have been hit thehardest.And no one is more bitter than the men and women who bought 400new medallions at auctions in 1996 and 1997 except, perhaps, formore recent buyers who paid even more money, up to $250,000 eachfor pre-existing medallions, only to learn that prices have plungedas much as $50,000 since the new rules were announced.The commission says that cabbies who own their medallions arethe safest drivers because they have the most invested, bothfinancially and emotionally, in their business.
But when they doget into accidents, they tend to leave their victims even morepoorly compensated than the rest of the industry.Big fleets, while they take great pains to hide their assets,will sometimes pay fair settlements under sufficient legalpressure.
But a cabby who has mortgaged everything he has to buy amedallion most of Lin's $30,000 down payment, for example, wasscraped up from friends and relatives, while the rest of the moneywas borrowed from a lender has nothing to offer.It costs them money, for one.
The new insurance minimums $100,000 in liability coverage rather than $25,000, and $200,000 tocover medical bills rather than $100,000 are expected to increaseowner-drivers' premiums, now typically $3,100 a year, to $6,000 ormore.
The new penalty schedule, which raises fines several hundredpercent for infractions from smoking to speeding, can also cause adriver to lose his license after only two tickets.But it is the requirement that every medallion owner set aside$100,000 in a bond which accident victims can collect if they getjudgments in excess of insurance coverage that worries driversthe most.Taxi industry leaders, who filed suit on Friday to overturn thenew rules, have asked the commission to consider alternatives tothe bond, like requiring owners to contribute to a pool of money tocompensate people with the most devastating injuries.When asked whether independent owners whose medallions werealready mortgaged to the hilt might find it impossible to come upwith another $100,000, Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said that many of themwere financing their medallions by choice, not by necessity.Neil Greenbaum, a lender and broker who said he financed morethan 100 of the new medallion purchases, scoffed at her assertion.Ms.
McGrath-McKechnie said that in any case, a driver whostretched himself paper-thin to buy a medallion was not actingresponsibly.But Greenbaum noted that the commission, in promoting themedallion auction, held seminars for bankers to encourage them tolend money to medallion buyers.Until he surged to the lead on the turn for home at HollywoodPark and held off Deputy Commander by two lengths, he was the besthorse who'd never won a stakes race.Mud Route, ridden and trained by Hall of Famers Chris McCarronand Ron McAnally, was an early West Coast favorite for the 1997Kentucky Derby after swift maiden and allowance victories butshin problems sidelined him until fall.
At Santa Anita this winter,the colt twice finished second to '97 Derby winner Silver Charm.His reputation preceded him to Arkansas, where he was favored inthe Oaklawn Handicap but ran fourth.
A confidence-building victoryagainst cheaper horses last time out set him up for TheCalifornian, a $250,000 race whose 45 winners include 10 nationalchampions.Mud Route ($3.80), once a speedball, stalked Worldly Ways formost of the 1[-mile race.
Deputy Commander, trying to find hisTravers- and Super Derby-winning form and carrying six pounds morethan the field, came wide and finished 2{ lengths in front ofthird-place Worldly Ways.Later Sunday, McCarron and McAnally teamed up again to win the$150,000 Estrapade Stakes on the turf with late-running ProudFillie ($5.40).
NEW YORK The media turned out in force at St. Patrick'sCathedral on Sunday, anticipating yet another in what has latelybeen a series of public pronouncements by Cardinal John O'Connor onissues like Little League play on Sundays and domestic partnershiplegislation.
Perhaps he would weigh in on Terrence McNally'scontroversial new play, or comment on some other pressing socialissue.The cardinal, however, stayed focused on Sunday's confirmationMass for 25 Catholics with severe disabilities although he didmanage to find a few opportunities to tweak the assembledreporters.No precautions were taken on Sunday morning beyond the severalpolice officers who are always on hand for Sunday Masses at St.Patrick's.
The cardinal, a former Navy chaplain, was unfazed by thethreat, said his spokesman, Joseph Zwilling.BAY HEAD, N.J.
Residents of this wealthy seaside communityreacted Sunday with a mix of sympathy and flippancy as they learnedthat 22 Chinese immigrants landed here on Saturday night.By early Sunday afternoon, after the Oops II had been towed fromthe beach, residents and tourists who stayed behind were doingtheir best to come up with a good rumor to explain its arrival.SLOATSBURG, N.Y.
The law people cite most often in thisvillage these days is the one that says precisely what kind ofhousing is allowed: single-family houses on lots of 40,000 squarefeet, single-family houses on 30,000 square feet, single-familyhouses on 15,000 square feet and single-family houses on 10,000square feet.
Period.They are trying to derail a plan by Mayor Samuel Abate to bringthe first multifamily housing to a village filled with people whocame here to get away from the very idea.Sloatsburgers are willing to have change and growth to apoint, said Becky Kern, a leader of the Little Town Forum for theHistoric Preservation of Sloatsburg, a group formed to resistAbate.This view puts Mrs. Kern and her allies squarely in themainstream of a national reaction against high-density row housedevelopments like the one K. Hovnanian Enterprises, the biggesttown house developer in the country, hopes to build in Sloatsburg.It is an opposition that seems a far cry from an earlyacceptance of suburban town houses, when they first began appearingin large numbers in the 1970s, as sensible, affordable and because they reduced sprawl environmentally friendly starterhomes for young couples, or as step-down homes for empty-nesters.But as the number of town houses has increased, complaints havegrown that town houses clog roads, send more children into localschools than had been promised, depress the value of single-familyhouses and too frequently become rental units.Consider: The Supervisors of Prince William County, Md.,concerned about rapid growth, approved a zoning plan this springthat reduces the number of future town houses that may be built by10,000 units, or 40 percent.
It did so by creating a zone excludingtown houses in the county's western reaches.
Prince George's Countyhas already passed a law banning town houses in certain areas whereschools are overcrowded.Two years ago, Brian Sheerin won a seat on the town board in thesuburban Pittsburgh town of Ben Avon on the strength of alast-minute write-in vote from neighbors opposed to a small,15-unit town house project on Dickson Avenue.And in an early example that could have come from nearlyanywhere, the City Council of San Leandro, Calif., rejected a36-unit row-house project in the northern part of town in 1992despite a consensus from environmentalists that by filling vacantspace in a built-up area, the project was environmentally sensible.At one site, K. Hovnanian Enterprises has already filed plansfor a 340-unit town house project on a tract that had beenintended for 66 single-family houses and it is holding out asweetener to the town: a sewage treatment plant that would handleboth the new housing and most of the Route 17 business district.And after 18 years in office, Abate has learned how to makethings go his way.
Over fierce opposition, he merged the policeforces of his village and the town of Ramapo and sold the village'swater supply system to a private water company.
When asked whatwould happen to Sloatsburg if he failed to get his way on thefloating zone, Abate was polite but firm.Sloatsburg's single-family homes are cradled along the Route 17corridor just north of the New Jersey line in Rockland County, andin little valleys and hillsides in the Ramapo Mountains, which formthe village's western wall.
A fair number of young families havemoved there from New Jersey and Westchester to find inexpensivehomes, average price still only $148,000, in an atmosphere that hasmore of Vermont than a downstate New York commuter town, barely anhour from Manhattan on the Short Line bus.But while its residential areas are fetchingly rustic,Sloatsburg's main street, along Highway 17, is a gap-toothedstretch of gas stations and shops, without a distinct downtown andlacking any of the Main Street charm other rural towns have strivento achieve.
Opponents of the town house project say massdevelopment would only add to the downscale look of their town'sbusiness stretch.
Mrs. Kern and her husband, Greg, bought their old, gabledVictorian fixer-upper seven years ago and now have two littlegirls.
Their home on Eagle Valley Road stands almost across fromwhere the entrance to a potential floating zone development coulddescend.At a packed public meeting on May 18, about 400 residents brokethe maximum occupancy rules at the Senior Citizens Center toupbraid Abate and the three-member town board (one had resigned,reportedly because of the pressure of the zoning issue).One speaker supported the change: Frank Dailey, a developer whohad been frustrated by the town before.
Every other speaker wasopposed: Harrison Bush worried about sewer costs, Dan Simone saidthe local schools would be destroyed, Rich Gurasser said youngpeople would be squeezed out of town and across the line intoOrange County, and Pat Kleese worried about the fate of the bearthat occasionally forages for garbage at the end of her road if theHovnanian project were built up to her lot.And there was a more subtle note of concern, a note about whatkind of people might come, expressed by a speaker who asked whetheror not social service agencies would be allowed to rent any of thenew row houses for their clients.Troy Osborne, 28, a fifth-generation Sloatsburger, rents a homefor himself and his wife from a friend in the Flats, in the olddowntown section, while he builds his truck repair business.
But herejected bate's contention that young families like his need newhousing.PORT CHESTER, N.Y.
Compared with small boxing events in otherparts of the country, the fights held here in April at the CapitolTheater looked like a police officers' convention.
Clumps of men insport coats with badges and New York State Athletic Commissionemblems guarded the dressing-room doors.
Corner inspectors insurgical gloves leaned over the ropes to monitor the fighters andtheir trainers between rounds, and were rotated at the bell, with anew inspection team for each bout.That level of regulatory presence would be unthinkable in manystates.
But whether it is zealous, invaluable attention to fightersafety or wasteful extravagance is a question central to the debateabout what New York taxpayers get for their money in boxingregulation.Over the years, the state athletic commission has beencriticized as a political patronage operation.
Some boxing expertshave recently questioned the credentials of the commission'sdoctors.Still, when compared with other states, New York clearlyrequires more medical screening of fighters and operates with abudget that dwarfs those elsewhere.The commission's budget, which was seriously cut during theeconomic recession in New York in the early 1990s, has balloonedsince, despite no growth in the number of events.
In 1992, forexample, the commission spent $494,800 to regulate 31 boxing shows.Last year it spent $841,000 to oversee 30.A spokesman for the commission, Scott Trent, said most of thespending increases were due to staff salaries being restored totheir former levels.
But spending on supplies, materials, medicaltesting, travel and equipment purchases grew as well, according tocommission budget documents.Most noticeably, the question of just how serious an operationthe commission is was underscored with the appointment of FloydPatterson as chairman in 1995.
The two-time heavyweight worldchampion, who is 63, has memory problems.
He resigned in March, buthad long been regarded within the sport as a $76,000-a-yearfigurehead.New York places more demands on fighters and promoters than moststates do, in both medical tests and fees.
The state requires eachfighter to get a CAT brain scan, as well as an electrocardiogramand an EKG once a year.
It also collects a 5.5 percent tax ontickets and a .55 percent tax on television rights.
And boxersgenerally have to be in the state for several days before theirfights.But even promoters who have been critical of New York say thatputting the state in a national context is crucial.NEW YORK As refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia began tricklinginto the Bronx about 15 years ago, their minds and bodies scarredby war, Montefiore Medical Center, a private hospital with a longhistory of serving immigrant and indigent New Yorkers, establisheda clinic to serve them.The federally subsidized clinic in East Fordham employedfull-time interpreters speaking Vietnamese and Khmer, the Cambodianlanguage.
The interpreters scheduled the refugees' appointments,helped them communicate with doctors and stood by them through Papsmears, X-rays, MRIs and other unfamiliar rituals of Westernmedicine.But in April, because of financial pressures, the hospitalreassigned its two full-time interpreters to clerical jobs.
It nowrelies on eight employees fluent in Khmer or Vietnamese who work inother jobs at the clinic from filing medical records to servingas medical assistants to translate as needed.The change has unleashed a flurry of protest by advocacy groupsand prompted an investigation by federal civil rights officialsinto whether refugee patients are being denied ready access tointerpreters something Montefiore must provide as a condition ofreceiving federal aid.Larry Velez, a spokesman for the office of civil rights at thefederal Department of Health and Human Services, said his office'sinquiry, which began after clinic staff members and patients fileda complaint, was the first in recent memory examining the civilrights of non-English-speaking patients at a New York Cityhospital.The investigation at Montefiore, which has long been considereda leader in caring for immigrant New Yorkers, is being watchedclosely by other health care providers and by immigrants'advocates, who hope to use it as leverage to bolster their demandsthat hospitals and clinics improve their interpreting services.Most of the city's hospitals and clinics rely on a patchwork ofbilingual staff members, volunteers and, at times, the children ofpatients to do translation, said Francesca Gany, executive directorof the New York Immigrant Task Force on Health.
This ad hoc systemfrequently breaks down, she said, sowing confusion and making thediagnosis and treatment of immigrants' health problems much moredifficult.Over the last several years, civil rights inquiries around thecountry have prompted changes in the way health care providersoffer translation for patients.
In Colorado, the state socialservices agency was cited for allowing the friends and familymembers of patients to translate during psychiatric evaluations.One patient, El Hong, 48, said that when he stumbled into theclinic recently with severe diarrhea and stomach pain, he waitedseven hours until a translator could be found and he could be seenby a physician.
Hong later recalled the event, speaking through atranslator.
He shook his head and said he did not know how he wouldcope without the guidance of Ni Yann, a former translator who hasbeen reassigned as a medical records clerk.But the guidelines do not require all institutions to employfull-time interpreters.
They can rely instead on bilingual staffmembers or a pool of qualified volunteers or they can contract withoutside interpreters.
Montefiore officials said that at its twoBronx hospitals, a bank of volunteer interpreters and bilingualstaff members, who represent 44 languages, provide translation asneeded.Several staff members at the clinic on 193rd Street said thereassignments were inefficient, forcing them to scramble to findbilingual employees who may be busy tending to other tasks andforcing their patients to wait.On Dr. Zach Rosen's shift a couple of weeks ago, for instance,an elderly Cambodian woman with a history of hypertension came intohis office for a scheduled visit; neither spoke the other'slanguage.
So, while the patient waited, Rosen said he ran aroundlooking for a medical assistant on the floor who spoke Khmer.
She,as it turned out, was busy translating for another physician downthe hall.Some staff members also said the full-time interpreters werecrucial in offering a sense of safety to refugees still traumatizedby war and dislocation.A nurse practitioner, Nancy Tenney, said an elderly Cambodianwoman who had recently been assaulted came in complaining ofnumbness in her arm.
Ms. Tenney suggested an MRI, but when thepatient was told that Ms. Yann would be unable to accompany her,she refused the test.BOSTON Raging winds, hail, and blinding thunderstorms pummeledmuch of Massachusetts Sunday night, killing two people in a pickuptruck in Winchendon, Mass., cutting power lines, toppling treelimbs, and threatening tornadoes for much of the night.With tornado watches in effect throughout the region at leastuntil early Monday, Doppler radar showed a twister may have toucheddown in Worcester County Sunday night, the National Weather Servicereported.Earlier, a funnel cloud was spotted in Pittsfield, according toWeather Services Corp. in Lexington, but there were no reports thatit had touched down.The storm swept eastward from New York state, but spared NewEngland much of the devastation it had wrought there.
Trees blewthrough homes and houses were leveled in Mechanicville, N.Y., northof Albany, authorities reported.But the storm was furious in its wrath here as well:Golf-ball-sized hail tumbled from the sky above Walpole, N.H.,leaving cars dented, said Marc Bennett, a Weather Services Corp.meteorologist.In Lawrence, Mass., almost two-tenths of an inch of rain fell inseven minutes a phenomenal amount of water, Bennett said.
AndWorcester Airport recorded a 94 m.p.h.
wind gust after 10 p.m.,said Doug Cope, information officer for Massachusetts EmergencyManagement Agency.In Winchendon, near the New Hampshire state line, two mendriving a pickup truck along Route 202 were killed when a pine treesnapped and toppled onto the 1994 Toyota pickup, just after 6 p.m.Much of the damage occurred in Franklin and Worcester counties,where trees and power wires were downed.
Greenfield reported a windgust of 68 m.p.h., according to Jennifer Kensy, a Weather ServicesCorp.
meteorologist.At its height, Western Massachusetts Electric reported 5,287customers without electric, mostly in Greenfield, the Pittsfielddistrict, and later in west Springfield.
Both utilities wereworking to restore power last night.The storm, blown in from New York state after 5 p.m., firstattacked Pittsfield, then tracked more northeast, cutting a swathof precipitation and wind across the top of the state and intosouthern Vermont and New Hampshire, Bennett said.It was part of the same system that wracked South Dakota, saidAlan Dunham, meteorologist with the National Weather Service, ofthe twisters that virtually leveled the town of Spencer, S.D.,Saturday night.
The storm then raged through the midwest, killingseveral people.The torrential weather was expected to dissipate overnight.Weather Services Corp. predicts sun and breezy conditions onMonday, with a temperature of about 75 degrees.Monroe Spears, a critic, teacher and poet, died on May 23 at theSouthern Tennessee Medical Center in Winchester, Tenn.
He was 82and lived in Sewanee, Tenn.He taught at the University of Wisconsin, Vanderbilt Universityin Nashville, Tenn., and the University of the South in Sewanee,where he edited The Sewanee Review from 1952 to 1961.
In 1964 hebecame Moody professor of English at Rice University in Houston,where he taught until his retirement in 1986.
He was a member ofthe Fellowship of Southern Writers.Most of LCI's top executives, including its chairman and chiefexecutive, Brian Thompson, will remain with Qwest.
Thompson willbecome Qwest's vice chairman.The two companies have received all of the federal regulatoryapprovals they require to complete their merger.
Shareholders ofQwest, based in Denver, and LCI are set to vote on the deal onFriday.
If Worldcom Inc.'s $37 billion acquisition of MCICommunications Corp. wins government approval, the combinedQwest-LCI will become the United States' No.
4 long-distancetelephone company.Joseph Nacchio, who left ATT Corp. after he was passed over forthat company's top job, will remain Qwest's president and chiefexecutive.
Philip Anschutz, the Denver oil and railroad magnate whocontrols Qwest, will remain the company's chairman.Anne Bingaman, LCI's aggressive regulatory affairs chief, is themost senior LCI executive who is not a member of the team thatQwest plans to announce Monday.
Before joining LCI last year, Ms.Bingaman ran the Justice Department's antitrust division.
Sinceleaving the government she has become an outspoken foe of the Belllocal telephone companies, proposing that they each be split inhalf.After completing the LCI acquisition, Nacchio will have 12people reporting to him.
Five of the people, including LawrenceBouman, LCI's senior vice president for engineering, will have comefrom LCI.Besides the ex-LCI executives, almost every member of Qwest'stop management team will have come from larger companies, includingATT, Lucent, GTE and U S West.
The telecommunications industry isone of the few sectors in which talented executives routinelyfollow career paths in which they move from larger to smallercompanies.CHICAGO The game took 2 hours 34 minutes, and for MichaelJordan, it had to feel like 15 brutal rounds, the way it felt yearsago for the aging Muhammad Ali.
Jordan once flew the way the youngAli danced, but at 35, against Larry Bird's swarming IndianaPacers, in the fourth quarter of a seventh game, Jordan had nowhereto go but the clinches.He fought in flurries.
He went to the boards.
He drove the ballinto a crowd of hacking behemoths.
He and his team won with heartand guile and, like Ali until he had nothing left, because Jordanhad promised that was precisely what he would do.As it turned out, the Bulls began their ascent over this bumpwhen Jordan won a jump ball from a 7-footer.It was the middle of the fourth quarter and the Bulls weresagging, with Jordan struggling, with their front line plagued byfouls.
They were trailing by 77-74.
They were waiting for Jordan todo something, anything, to bail them out.Jordan drove into the lane against the long-armed Derrick McKey,who reached in as Jordan neared the basket and stripped Jordan ofthe ball.
It rolled on the floor, toward Rik Smits.
Jordan, fallingbackward, reached around and, with Smits, got a hand on the ball.Jordan somehow won the jump.
Steve Kerr wound up with an open3-point shot on the right wing.
The score was tied.
The message wassent.
Jordan was going to drag his team to Salt Lake City, to itssixth championship series.
Twenty-eight points on a night when hisjump shot wasn't falling, when every advance to the basket broughta double-team.
Eight assists on a night when, more than ever, hehad to have help.
Nine rebounds on a night when the Bullsessentially won the game with second shots.
With hustle plays.
Withthe directive to stop the whining over every call or play thatdidn't go their way.The time had come for them to put aside the preoccupation withtheir uncertain future and get in touch with the precious present.Time to forget the insipid organizational feuds, their contractualcomplaints and the overblown burden of being the Bulls.
Time totake any contribution they could get, including a 14-pointperimeter explosion by Toni Kukoc, the one-time obsession of JerryKrause, the general manager, whom Jackson, Jordan and ScottiePippen heartily despise.A couple of weeks sooner than anyone thought was likely, thetime had come to stare down dynastic mortality, a predicament onemust inevitably confront without the spiritual aid of an agent.Until Sunday night, with Jordan purifying their lineup the Bullshad not even been extended to a seventh game of a playoff seriessince 1992.
That was when Pat Riley's New York Knicks put asecond-round choke hold on Pippen, but inevitably played Game 7 atthe old Chicago Stadium with an exceedingly motley crew thatfeatured a slow-footed point guard named Mark Jackson, whose pushshot often landed uglier than it took off.The lack of a companion superpower to effect a balance of powerhas created an annoying haughtiness about the Bulls, a wart thatseems to have become visible to the country during the Indianaseries.
This particular Bulls championship quest has become asemotional as a deposit into a savings account.
And when the balancesheet didn't add up, it was always the fault of the bank.This is not to say that Jordan's Bulls haven't been pushed,haven't flirted with the sudden-death dangers of a seventh game.Someone in a national sports magazine commented last week that thisyear's Utah Jazz might actually be determined enough to force atruly competitive finals, forgetting that three of the Bulls' fourvictories in last year's finals were undecided until the game'sfinal shot.One insider said the qualifying tournament for the 2000 Olympicsprobably will be in March of that year, meaning NBA players wouldbe unable to participate because the season would be going on.Without NBA players, the U.S. likely would not qualify for theOlympics.Stern, meanwhile, issued a strong declaration to the members ofthe U.S. team that, should they decide not to honor their contractswith USA Basketball, it would hurt them more than it would hurt theNBA.The U.S. roster for the World Championship must be submittedthis month to FIBA, Granik said.
And so far, there are no changes,in spite of pleas from NBA players union chief Patrick Ewing thatthe players boycott the tournament.Both geographically and culturally, California has always seemedon the extreme edge of the United States.
This is where the crazyfashions start, from oat bran to surfing shorts to New Agecrystal-gazing.It is where a black mayor can appear in Chinese robes on acatwalk, and his rival can be photographed naked in the shower; itis where anything goes, morally, spiritually or gastronomically,except the lighting up of a cigarette in a bar.Small wonder that many Americans have often dreamed of seeingCalifornia, like some extravagant growth, painlessly removed fromthe body politic.There, a millionaire candidate, Al Checchi, who had spent around$40 million on his campaign (a record, even for America) wassoundly beaten in the Democratic primary for the governorship; andanother millionaire, Darrell Issa, was beaten in the Republicanprimary for the Senate.Voters had more sense than to be swayed by these men's money,which was a poor cover for the fact that they had no politicalexperience and the vaguest ideological convictions.
Instead, theyopted for candidates whose careers commended them.It was not a flawless choice: Gray Davis, the relativelyimpoverished victor over Checchi, now owes a lot of money to thespecial interests who helped him.
But the result adds a hopefulnote to the endless debate about the proper role of money inAmerican elections.Checchi's appearance on the scene was not, as some feared,pernicious: he challenged the establishment at his own expense,which was a good thing, but then found his millions did not swaythe voters, which was just as encouraging.Checchi's ads swamped the airwaves but did not work, suggestingthere may be a natural limit to the usefulness of spending money oncommercials (the tactic which most inflates the cost of politicalcampaigning in America).Above all, California has shown that voters can usually betrusted: in all the agonizing over campaign-finance reform, perhapsthe only vital rule is that they should know where a candidate'smoney comes from.Also on Tuesday, Californians voted to end the state's programof bilingual education, by which non-English-speaking children aretaught in their own language for several years.This costly program, the largest of its kind in the country, hadpatently failed to reduce the dropout rate of Latino high-schoolchildren.Latino parents supported the proposal almost as heartily asAnglos, and for a simple reason: in America, despite the currencyof Spanish, English is the language of advancement.There was another, equally sensible, reason for this vote.
Inrecent years, California has turned against any kind ofpreferential treatment for minorities.
In 1996, it became the firststate to bar racial preferences in state hiring and contracting andin admissions to state universities, a bold move that deserved moreimitators on the national scene.The bilingual vote is an extension of this policy.
California'svoters now believe that after many years of trying to assist blacksand Latinos by applying admissions quotas or easier standards, theproper approach is to spend more money on education at earlierstages and across the board.With a booming economy and a $4 billion budget surplus, there ismoney at last for improving the state's lagging schools; and, withit, the confidence to defy entrenched bodies, such as the teachers'unions, that stand in the way of color-blind reforms.Not everything went smoothly on election day.
Californiansturned down a proposal that union members should give theirapproval before their dues are spent for political purposes: avictory for labor that will have national implications.Turnout, at less than 40 percent, showed that relentlesscampaigning-by-television has dulled the taste for taking part inpolitics.But hey, this is California; too much good sense all at once maybe hazardous to your health.
(To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
Both geographically and culturally, California has always seemedon the extreme edge of the United States.
This is where the crazyfashions start, from oat bran to surfing shorts to New Agecrystal-gazing.It is where a black mayor can appear in Chinese robes on acatwalk, and his rival can be photographed naked in the shower; itis where anything goes, morally, spiritually or gastronomically,except the lighting up of a cigarette in a bar.Small wonder that many Americans have often dreamed of seeingCalifornia, like some extravagant growth, painlessly removed fromthe body politic.There, a millionaire candidate, Al Checchi, who had spent around$40 million on his campaign (a record, even for America) wassoundly beaten in the Democratic primary for the governorship; andanother millionaire, Darrell Issa, was beaten in the Republicanprimary for the Senate.Voters had more sense than to be swayed by these men's money,which was a poor cover for the fact that they had no politicalexperience and the vaguest ideological convictions.
Instead, theyopted for candidates whose careers commended them.It was not a flawless choice: Gray Davis, the relativelyimpoverished victor over Checchi, now owes a lot of money to thespecial interests who helped him.
But the result adds a hopefulnote to the endless debate about the proper role of money inAmerican elections.Checchi's appearance on the scene was not, as some feared,pernicious: he challenged the establishment at his own expense,which was a good thing, but then found his millions did not swaythe voters, which was just as encouraging.Checchi's ads swamped the airwaves but did not work, suggestingthere may be a natural limit to the usefulness of spending money oncommercials (the tactic which most inflates the cost of politicalcampaigning in America).Above all, California has shown that voters can usually betrusted: in all the agonizing over campaign-finance reform, perhapsthe only vital rule is that they should know where a candidate'smoney comes from.Also on Tuesday, Californians voted to end the state's programof bilingual education, by which non-English-speaking children aretaught in their own language for several years.This costly program, the largest of its kind in the country, hadpatently failed to reduce the dropout rate of Latino high-schoolchildren.Latino parents supported the proposal almost as heartily asAnglos, and for a simple reason: in America, despite the currencyof Spanish, English is the language of advancement.There was another, equally sensible, reason for this vote.
Inrecent years, California has turned against any kind ofpreferential treatment for minorities.
In 1996, it became the firststate to bar racial preferences in state hiring and contracting andin admissions to state universities, a bold move that deserved moreimitators on the national scene.The bilingual vote is an extension of this policy.
California'svoters now believe that after many years of trying to assist blacksand Latinos by applying admissions quotas or easier standards, theproper approach is to spend more money on education at earlierstages and across the board.With a booming economy and a $4 billion budget surplus, there ismoney at last for improving the state's lagging schools; and, withit, the confidence to defy entrenched bodies, such as the teachers'unions, that stand in the way of color-blind reforms.Not everything went smoothly on election day.
Californiansturned down a proposal that union members should give theirapproval before their dues are spent for political purposes: avictory for labor that will have national implications.Turnout, at less than 40 percent, showed that relentlesscampaigning-by-television has dulled the taste for taking part inpolitics.But hey, this is California; too much good sense all at once maybe hazardous to your health.
(To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
ELMONT, N.Y.
The jockey burst into the room, minutes after hishorse, the Triple Crown aspirant, had drawn post position No.
8.Someone at this moment handed Kent Desormeaux a cellular telephone.His wife, Sonia, was on the line.Hours before Holyfield faces a plow horse of a challenger atMadison Square Garden, Desormeaux will attempt to ride Real Quietto racing's 12th Triple Crown in the 130th running of the BelmontStakes.
Since no one this year heralded the horse as the secondcoming of Secretariat and the field of distinguished contenders hasworn down to a whisper, Real Quiet's place in history has,prematurely, become a clubhouse argument waiting to happen.Can the name of a horse that won two of his first 12 races bementioned in the same breath as decorated Triple Crown winners suchas Affirmed?
A clue, a potential affirmative, can be found in theman visited Thursday by Kent Desormeaux.Go back a few years.
Who rated Holyfield as much more thanrugged, earnest and about as easy to hit as a heavy bag?
How manyrecommended that he retire before absorbing the blow that wouldslur more than his speech?
Two overhyped fights later against afading ex-con, Holyfield has negotiated, like Donald Trump, his wayinto boxing lore, as its unflinching Real Deal.Dignity.
Durability.
Longevity.
Joe Frazier had strengthssimilar to those that have served Holyfield so well, but theyweren't nearly enough to measure up to Muhammad Ali.
Holyfield isnot held accountable for those who were unable to persevere andchallenge him now, like Riddick Bowe, or for those who simply donot exist.
Nor should he be.
He can only compete against thecompetitors and conditions that confront him.Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, hobbled on crutches out ofhis barn early Thursday to praise the horse that has won two ofthree.
Walden broke his right foot playing pickup basketball lastweek with Julie Krone's husband at Monmouth Park.
He has sevenscrews and a plate in his foot.
Mishaps happen, to horses and theirtrainers.
Walden is working, anyway.
Victory Gallop was second(barely) in the Kentucky Derby, second (distantly) in thePreakness.
There is one more chance to deny Real Quiet his prize.If Bob Baffert's horse wins again, then Walden said there should beno denying Real Quiet his rightful Triple Crown fame.With people, we tend to chalk this process up as delayeddevelopment: athletes who mature, like wine.
Come to think of it,Michael Jordan was hardly in such rarified air as a college playerat North Carolina.
Scottie Pippen, John Stockton and Karl Malonewere fleeting thoughts in Dick Vitale's brain.Sometimes, of course, great things are achieved by athletes whoare just very good.
David Wells pitched a perfect game.
Roger Marishit 61 home runs.
He isn't in the Hall of Fame but it is his162-game pace that has been the standard now for 37 years.
Bottomline: that's about as real as any deal gets.Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps the most incompetent nationalist inmodern history, continues to hack away at what is left ofYugoslavia.On May 31 voters in tiny Montenegro, which, with Serbia, is allthat is left of the Yugoslav federation, strongly backed theirreformist president, who no longer recognizes the authority ofYugoslavia's government.
The next step may be a referendum onindependence.Meanwhile, Milosevic is stepping up his war on separatists inKosovo, Serbia's Albanian-speaking province.
Over 200 people havebeen killed this year, perhaps 40 this week.
Refugees are streamingout of Kosovo.
Young Albanians eager to join up with the separatistKosovo Liberation Army are streaming in.This is harrowingly familiar.
Seven years ago Milosevic'sattempt to enlarge Serbia's share of Yugoslavia which thenincluded Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia cost at least100,000 lives.Familiar, too, is the dilemma faced by western leaders: shouldthey watch the bloodshed, as they did for too long in Bosnia, orrisk compatriots' lives and their own political careers by gettinginvolved in somebody else's war, as America did in Vietnam?Muscular diplomacy, they had hoped, would save them.
The ContactGroup America, Russia and the four big West European countries punished Milosevic's aggression in Kosovo with sanctions.
Even ashe continued to pound the Albanians, he agreed to talk to theirleader; sanctions were eased.
But the West now admits it will haveto do more.The separatists use both countries (and Montenegro) as havensand as conduits for arms.
Milosevic's forces might well be temptedto chase them across borders, setting off a wider war.Last week foreign ministers from NATO's 16 members decided toupgrade a military exercise in Macedonia and launch one in Albania.The goal is sensible: to warn off Serbia and bolster the stabilityof two governments that have so far steered clear of Kosovo's war.Yet even these modest reassurances pull NATO into dangerousterritory.
Two countries that serve as bases for attacks onYugoslavia, albeit not deliberately, now have an implicit securityguarantee.
To protect them, NATO may have to go beyond thehand-holding measures it has planned so far.Nor, lastly, should NATO police Albania's chaotic northeast,where an outlaw mini-state run by adherents of the ex-president,Sali Berisha, terrorizes the locals and succors Kosovo'sguerrillas.A NATO operation should have one mission: to deter organizedaggression and, if necessary, repel it by force.NATO's strategists suggest 23,000 troops would be needed alongthe 140-kilometer (90-mile) border between Kosovo and Albania.
Thatis too many, especially if the force is not to be expected tointercept arms and guerrillas.
NATO needs only enough troops toback up its deterrent role: it can watch borders from the air andsend extra troops in case of attack.Even if this were to succeed, NATO would have other worries.Albanians are not angels.
While Serb police mop up separatistsettlements, the Kosovo Liberation Army has driven some KosovoSerbs out of their villages; in a province that is nine-tenthsAlbanian, the guerrillas look the likelier ethnic cleansers.If NATO guards the borders behind which they hide, the Serbswill accuse it of sheltering terrorists.
Western governments, whichhave used that term to describe Kosovo's guerrillas, will be forcedto agree.
That would be bad.
But inaction would be worse.Whatever NATO does, things can always get nastier in theBalkans.
If Serbia's crackdown became wholesale slaughter, it wouldhave to consider direct intervention in Kosovo.
And the West wouldface some more hard choices if Montenegro opted for independenceand Milosevic chose to send in his army.NATO's next Balkan operation may not be its last.
(To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps the most incompetent nationalist inmodern history, continues to hack away at what is left ofYugoslavia.On May 31 voters in tiny Montenegro, which, with Serbia, is allthat is left of the Yugoslav federation, strongly backed theirreformist president, who no longer recognizes the authority ofYugoslavia's government.
The next step may be a referendum onindependence.Meanwhile, Milosevic is stepping up his war on separatists inKosovo, Serbia's Albanian-speaking province.
Over 200 people havebeen killed this year, perhaps 40 this week.
Refugees are streamingout of Kosovo.
Young Albanians eager to join up with the separatistKosovo Liberation Army are streaming in.This is harrowingly familiar.
Seven years ago Milosevic'sattempt to enlarge Serbia's share of Yugoslavia which thenincluded Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia cost at least100,000 lives.Familiar, too, is the dilemma faced by western leaders: shouldthey watch the bloodshed, as they did for too long in Bosnia, orrisk compatriots' lives and their own political careers by gettinginvolved in somebody else's war, as America did in Vietnam?Muscular diplomacy, they had hoped, would save them.
The ContactGroup America, Russia and the four big West European countries punished Milosevic's aggression in Kosovo with sanctions.
Even ashe continued to pound the Albanians, he agreed to talk to theirleader; sanctions were eased.
But the West now admits it will haveto do more.The separatists use both countries (and Montenegro) as havensand as conduits for arms.
Milosevic's forces might well be temptedto chase them across borders, setting off a wider war.Last week foreign ministers from NATO's 16 members decided toupgrade a military exercise in Macedonia and launch one in Albania.The goal is sensible: to warn off Serbia and bolster the stabilityof two governments that have so far steered clear of Kosovo's war.Yet even these modest reassurances pull NATO into dangerousterritory.
Two countries that serve as bases for attacks onYugoslavia, albeit not deliberately, now have an implicit securityguarantee.
To protect them, NATO may have to go beyond thehand-holding measures it has planned so far.Nor, lastly, should NATO police Albania's chaotic northeast,where an outlaw mini-state run by adherents of the ex-president,Sali Berisha, terrorizes the locals and succors Kosovo'sguerrillas.A NATO operation should have one mission: to deter organizedaggression and, if necessary, repel it by force.NATO's strategists suggest 23,000 troops would be needed alongthe 140-kilometer (90-mile) border between Kosovo and Albania.
Thatis too many, especially if the force is not to be expected tointercept arms and guerrillas.
NATO needs only enough troops toback up its deterrent role: it can watch borders from the air andsend extra troops in case of attack.Even if this were to succeed, NATO would have other worries.Albanians are not angels.
While Serb police mop up separatistsettlements, the Kosovo Liberation Army has driven some KosovoSerbs out of their villages; in a province that is nine-tenthsAlbanian, the guerrillas look the likelier ethnic cleansers.If NATO guards the borders behind which they hide, the Serbswill accuse it of sheltering terrorists.
Western governments, whichhave used that term to describe Kosovo's guerrillas, will be forcedto agree.
That would be bad.
But inaction would be worse.Whatever NATO does, things can always get nastier in theBalkans.
If Serbia's crackdown became wholesale slaughter, it wouldhave to consider direct intervention in Kosovo.
And the West wouldface some more hard choices if Montenegro opted for independenceand Milosevic chose to send in his army.NATO's next Balkan operation may not be its last.
(To publish this excellent 750-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
NEW YORK Cabbies, street vendors and jaywalkers.
These may notsound like a few of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's favorite things, butthey all wear big grins in a new picture book written and publishedfor the mayor.The book, which the mayor dedicates to his mother, HelenGiuliani, was written and illustrated by Kristin Doney, 31, achildren's-book illustrator who lives in Greenwich Village.The book was published by New York City Public/PrivateInitiatives Inc., a private group headed by Tamra Roberts Lhota,the wife of the mayor's budget director, Joseph Lhota.
The book wasmade possible in part by a $25,000 grant from Goldman, Sachs Co.The mayor's office said copies would be donated to all elementaryschool libraries and all branches of the New York Public Library.The mayor said 10,000 copies were in print, but he expected atleast twice as many to be distributed ultimately.NEW YORK Four teen-age boys who are accused of sending lewdnotes threatening violence against certain teachers and students ata Brooklyn high school earlier this week have been arrested, schooland police officials said Thursday.The four boys, all juniors at Canarsie High School, were chargedwith aggravated harassment, a misdemeanor, and issued deskappearance tickets.
Three of the boys, arrested late Wednesdaynight, were identified as Weygand Gardner, Jesse Prendess andLonnie McNeill, all 17.
A fourth boy, Adrian Mair, 16, was arrestedThursday.
The police are looking for two other suspects, who arealso students at the school.Canarsie High was closed Thursday in observation ofBrooklyn-Queens Day.
When classes resume Friday, the boys accusedof making the threats will likely be suspended for a maximum of 30days, a Board of Education spokesman, J.D.
LaRock, said.School safety officers and the police interviewed those named inthe notes and scoured the school building, which was alreadyequipped with metal detectors, for weapons.
Two of the three noteswere sent from America Online accounts; LaRock said it was notclear whether the third was e-mail or just a note written on acomputer.
None appeared to have been generated on a schoolcomputer, he added.CHICAGO Education has always been a local issue in America.Now an increasing number of parents are choosing to make it evenmore local: they are doing it themselves.Home-schooling groups put the number of students learning athome at 1.23 million, or slightly more than all the public-schoolstudents in New Jersey.
Such numbers are notoriously imprecise,since some of the most populous states, such as Texas and Illinois,collect no meaningful data on home schooling.Still, experts reckon that the number of families teaching theirchildren at home has exploded over the past decade and is growingby at least 15 percent a year.Why?
Twenty years ago home schooling was a hippie habit, thenatural complement to free love and natural healing.
But the flowerchildren soon had strange bedfellows.In the mid-1980s, home schooling was embraced by Christianfundamentalists as a means of providing family-based religious andmoral education.Recently, there has been a boom in secular home schoolers whoare dissatisfied with public schools.The Florida Department of Education has for years sent a crudesurvey to home schoolers asking them why they withdrew from theregular system.
Two years ago, for the first time, dissatisfactionwith the public schools was a more common answer than religiouspreference.According to Mary Anne Pitman, an educational anthropologist atthe University of Cincinnati, one fast-growing group of homeschoolers is black professionals, worried by the lack of safe,effective public schools for their children.Two decades ago, home schooling was illegal in many states andstrongly discouraged in most others.
Students were hunted down astruants; parents were arrested and sometimes even jailed.In Minnesota, home schoolers must register, check in regularly,and take part in standardized exams to make sure the children arenot falling behind.
In Illinois, they are virtually unregulated.Some states have become downright accommodating.
Washington andIowa require the public schools to enroll children on a part-timebasis if they ask for it.In California, children can enroll in an independent studyprogram through a public school and then do their studying at home.Not surprisingly, the busiest opponents of all this are schooladministrators, particularly superintendents.
They can be expectedto have a belief in public schools, of course, but not all theirconcerns are so well-intentioned.Yet the legal climate has changed, in large part, because homeschoolers have developed into a potent political and legal force.Their association with the Christian right has earned them strongRepublican backing.They are also very good at bare-knuckle, grass-roots politics.The HSLDA has a staff of 50, including seven lawyers, who lobby onCapitol Hill but also pick fights at the state level.When a Michigan couple was arrested in 1985 for teaching theirchild at home without a teacher's license, the HSLDA fought thecase all the way to the Michigan Supreme Court, where the lawrequiring home-schooling parents to be licensed teachers was struckdown as unconstitutional.Farris boasts that he can generate 100 telephone calls to everycongressional office within a matter of hours.At the same time, public opinion on home schooling has shifted.When the Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll on public attitudes towardseducation first asked about home schooling in 1985, 73 percent ofthose surveyed said it was a bad thing, compared with 16 percentwho approved.When the same question was asked in 1997, the objectors hadfallen to 57 percent and the supporters had more than doubled, to36 percent.But what happens to the children?
The HSLDA claims that, onaverage, home-schooled students outperform their public-schoolpeers by more than 30 percentage points in all subjects, and thatthe longer a child is schooled at home the larger the test gapgrows.The figures may be tilted, and home-schooled students, whoseparents are an exacting bunch, would probably do well in publicschools too.
Still, home schooling is not creating a generation ofdullards.Illingworth has challenged the movement to find a better name,since many of its most successful students have taken some coursesin public schools and even in community colleges.
The picture of amother working with her children around the kitchen table does notdo justice to the idea, he says.And there is a harder question: is it possible to developsocially without ever going to school?Farris decided to begin educating his six-year-old daughter athome when he realized that she cared more about the approval ofother six-year-olds than she did about her own family.Harvard's Illingworth says the sociability of home-schooledapplicants varies as much as it does among ordinary ones.
Theexceptions come from religious families who have deliberatelywithdrawn their children from a world they consider tainted.One shadow lies over home schooling.
Joe Nathan, a senior fellowat the Hubert Humphrey Institute at the University of Minnesota,has spent much time interviewing parents who teach at home.In general, he considers home schooling to be a good thing forbringing change to the public schools; many home schoolers havealready been drawn back into the system by charter schools andother such experiments.
But there is a worrying group lurking inthe home-schooling shadows.Even so, most home-schooling parents choose to teach theirchildren at home at great cost to themselves because they reckonthe public schools are missing the mark; and, in many cases, theyare right.A surge of defections may finally send a wake-up call to thewhole public system.
Rather than merely talking of change, it istime to bring some about.
(To publish this fascinating 1,200-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
CHICAGO Education has always been a local issue in America.Now an increasing number of parents are choosing to make it evenmore local: they are doing it themselves.Home-schooling groups put the number of students learning athome at 1.23 million, or slightly more than all the public-schoolstudents in New Jersey.
Such numbers are notoriously imprecise,since some of the most populous states, such as Texas and Illinois,collect no meaningful data on home schooling.Still, experts reckon that the number of families teaching theirchildren at home has exploded over the past decade and is growingby at least 15 percent a year.Why?
Twenty years ago home schooling was a hippie habit, thenatural complement to free love and natural healing.
But the flowerchildren soon had strange bedfellows.In the mid-1980s, home schooling was embraced by Christianfundamentalists as a means of providing family-based religious andmoral education.Recently, there has been a boom in secular home schoolers whoare dissatisfied with public schools.The Florida Department of Education has for years sent a crudesurvey to home schoolers asking them why they withdrew from theregular system.
Two years ago, for the first time, dissatisfactionwith the public schools was a more common answer than religiouspreference.According to Mary Anne Pitman, an educational anthropologist atthe University of Cincinnati, one fast-growing group of homeschoolers is black professionals, worried by the lack of safe,effective public schools for their children.Two decades ago, home schooling was illegal in many states andstrongly discouraged in most others.
Students were hunted down astruants; parents were arrested and sometimes even jailed.In Minnesota, home schoolers must register, check in regularly,and take part in standardized exams to make sure the children arenot falling behind.
In Illinois, they are virtually unregulated.Some states have become downright accommodating.
Washington andIowa require the public schools to enroll children on a part-timebasis if they ask for it.In California, children can enroll in an independent studyprogram through a public school and then do their studying at home.Not surprisingly, the busiest opponents of all this are schooladministrators, particularly superintendents.
They can be expectedto have a belief in public schools, of course, but not all theirconcerns are so well-intentioned.Yet the legal climate has changed, in large part, because homeschoolers have developed into a potent political and legal force.Their association with the Christian right has earned them strongRepublican backing.They are also very good at bare-knuckle, grass-roots politics.The HSLDA has a staff of 50, including seven lawyers, who lobby onCapitol Hill but also pick fights at the state level.When a Michigan couple was arrested in 1985 for teaching theirchild at home without a teacher's license, the HSLDA fought thecase all the way to the Michigan Supreme Court, where the lawrequiring home-schooling parents to be licensed teachers was struckdown as unconstitutional.Farris boasts that he can generate 100 telephone calls to everycongressional office within a matter of hours.At the same time, public opinion on home schooling has shifted.When the Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll on public attitudes towardseducation first asked about home schooling in 1985, 73 percent ofthose surveyed said it was a bad thing, compared with 16 percentwho approved.When the same question was asked in 1997, the objectors hadfallen to 57 percent and the supporters had more than doubled, to36 percent.But what happens to the children?
The HSLDA claims that, onaverage, home-schooled students outperform their public-schoolpeers by more than 30 percentage points in all subjects, and thatthe longer a child is schooled at home the larger the test gapgrows.The figures may be tilted, and home-schooled students, whoseparents are an exacting bunch, would probably do well in publicschools too.
Still, home schooling is not creating a generation ofdullards.Illingworth has challenged the movement to find a better name,since many of its most successful students have taken some coursesin public schools and even in community colleges.
The picture of amother working with her children around the kitchen table does notdo justice to the idea, he says.And there is a harder question: is it possible to developsocially without ever going to school?Farris decided to begin educating his six-year-old daughter athome when he realized that she cared more about the approval ofother six-year-olds than she did about her own family.Harvard's Illingworth says the sociability of home-schooledapplicants varies as much as it does among ordinary ones.
Theexceptions come from religious families who have deliberatelywithdrawn their children from a world they consider tainted.One shadow lies over home schooling.
Joe Nathan, a senior fellowat the Hubert Humphrey Institute at the University of Minnesota,has spent much time interviewing parents who teach at home.In general, he considers home schooling to be a good thing forbringing change to the public schools; many home schoolers havealready been drawn back into the system by charter schools andother such experiments.
But there is a worrying group lurking inthe home-schooling shadows.Even so, most home-schooling parents choose to teach theirchildren at home at great cost to themselves because they reckonthe public schools are missing the mark; and, in many cases, theyare right.A surge of defections may finally send a wake-up call to thewhole public system.
Rather than merely talking of change, it istime to bring some about.
(To publish this fascinating 1,200-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
TAKAYAMA, Japan In what colleagues hailed as a historiclandmark, 120 physicists from 23 research institutions in Japan andthe United States announced on Friday that they had found theexistence of mass in a notoriously elusive subatomic particlecalled the neutrino.The neutrino, a particle that carries no electric charge, is solight that it was assumed for many years to have no mass at all.After Friday's announcement, cosmologists will have to confront thepossibility that much of the mass of the universe is in the form ofneutrinos.
The discovery will also compel scientists to revise ahighly successful theory of the composition of matter known as theStandard Model.Word of the discovery had drawn some 300 physicists here todiscuss neutrino research.
Among other things, they said, thefinding of neutrino mass might affect theories about the formationand evolution of galaxies and the ultimate fate of the universe.
Ifneutrinos have sufficient mass, their presence throughout theuniverse would increase the overall mass of the universe, possiblyslowing its present expansion.Others said the newly detected but as yet unmeasured mass of theneutrino must be too small to cause cosmological effects.
Butwhatever the case, there was general agreement here that thediscovery will have far-reaching consequences for the investigationof the nature of matter.Speaking for the collaboration of scientists who discovered theexistence of neutrino mass using a huge underground detector calledSuper-Kamiokande, Dr. Takaaki Kajita of the Institute for CosmicRay Research of Tokyo University said that all explanations for thedata collected by the detector except the existence of neutrinomass had been essentially ruled out.But because the elusive particles cannot be seen, the evidencethat they have mass is indirect.Study of the neutrino particle has been glacially slow since itsexistence was hypothesized in 1931 by the Austrian physicistWolfgang Pauli as a way to explain the mysterious loss of energy incertain nuclear reactions.
The particle was finally discovered in1956 by two physicists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr.Frederick Reines (who was awarded a Nobel Prize for the discovery)and the late Dr. Clyde Cowan.But understanding of the particle since then has been acquiredpainfully slowly, because neutrinos have no electric charge andrarely interact with any kind of matter.
A neutrino so rarelycollides with an atom of ordinary matter that a typical neutrinocan easily penetrate a one-light-year thickness of lead some sixtrillion miles without hindrance.As the writer John Updike put it in a poem he wrote in 1960:But once in a great while, a neutrino does hit an atom and theresulting blast of nuclear debris supplies clues about the neutrinoitself.
The debris generally includes many particles that can racethrough water, mineral oil or even ice, sending out shock waves ofblue light.
This light, called Cherenkov radiation, can be detectedby sensitive light sensors and measured.During the past few decades, scientists have learned that matteris made up of three distinct flavors or types.
This means thatthere are three flavors of neutrinos the electron neutrinoassociated with the electron, the muon neutrinos, associated withthe muon particle, which is a kind of fat electron, and the tauneutrino, associated with the tau particle, an even fatter relativeof the electron.The Super-Kamiokande detector was built two years ago as a jointJapanese-American experiment.
It is essentially a water tank thesize of a large cathedral installed in a deep zinc mine one mileinside a mountain 30 miles north of here.
When neutrinos slicethrough the tank, one of them occasionally makes its presence knownby colliding with an atom, which sends blue light through the waterto an array of detectors.The enormous volume of water in the detector increased thelikelihood of neutrino impacts to the point at which the discoveryof neutrino mass became possible.Physicists knew that different flavors of neutrinos constantlyarrive from the upper atmosphere and they have calculated that theratio between muon nutrinos and other flavors must have a certainvalue.
But over the years detectors found only about half the muonneutrino predicted by theory.The apparent shortage of muon neutrinos was explained by therecent observations that led to Friday's announcement.
Thephysicists found that when neutrinos come from the sky directlyover the Super Kamiokande detector a relatively short distance the proportion of muon neutrinos among them was higher than amongthe neutrinos coming up from beneath the detector after havingpassed through the Earth.The scientists reasoned that by traveling through the entireEarth these neutrinos had had time to oscillate, probably manytimes, between muon neutrinos and some other type, especially thetau neutrino, and this accounts for the deficit seen in muonneutrinos.
(The tau neutrino has not yet been directly detected butit must exist to make observations consistent.
)A related problem has to do with neutrinos produced by thefusion process in the sun.
This process, which merges the nuclei ofhydrogen atoms to form helium nuclei and energy, producesneutrinos.
Astrophysicists believe they understand the mechanism incomplete detail.The trouble is that all the best detectors ever built find farfewer neutrinos than should be present according to understandingof the fusion reaction.Scientists believe the anomaly can be explained by theoscillation of detectable solar nutrinos into types that cannot bedetected by existing instruments.
But no one has proven thisexplanation.The leader of the collaboration's University of Hawaii Group,for example, Dr. John Learned, has also worked on an underwaterdetection system in the Pacific Ocean off the Hawaiian coast (whichran out of money before completion) and a project at the South Polewhere a neutrino detector had been buried under thousands of feetof ice.Another approach to penetrating the neutrino secrets involvesthe use of particle accelerators capable of producing intense beamsof neutrinos.
In two experiments currently being prepared, one inJapan and the other at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory inIllinois, beams of neutrinos will be directed through the Earthtoward detectors several hundred miles away.
The goal will be toobserve changes the neutrinos undergo in transit, both in numbersand types.
Physicists expect the experiment to confirm theexistence of neutrino oscillations like those seen in theSuper-Kamiokande detector.Although the neutrinos are now known to have some mass, mostphysicists agree that the mass must be very small.
TheSuper-Kamiokande experiments suggest that the difference betweenthe masses of muon nutrinos and other types of neutrinos is onlyabout 0.07 electron volts (a measure of particle mass).
This doesnot yield a value of the masses themselves, only of the differencebetween those of muon neutrinos and other types.Although the mass of the neutrino of any flavor must be small,Totsuka said, it may be several electron-volts, and if so, theoverall gravitational effect on the universe would perhaps besignificant.
It has been estimated that at any given moment, everyteaspoon worth of volume of space throughout the universe containsan average of 300 neutrinos, so their aggregate number isstaggering.Representatives of dozens of neutrino experiments meet onceevery two years to exchange ideas at conferences like the one underway here.
Present are representatives of teams that have installedneutrino detectors on the bottom of Lake Baikal in Siberia, underthe Aegean Sea off the Greek coast, inside the Gran Sasso tunnelunder the Alps, under the ice covering the South Pole, and in manyother places.Kenneth Starr is out to get the truth about Bill Clinton.
Hewants the truth about a 20-year-old land deal called Whitewater.
Hewants the truth about a 24-year-old lady called Monica Lewinsky.To get that truth, Starr has done most things short of crackingkneecaps.
He has hidden a microphone on an accomplice.
He hassubpoenaed bookshop records to see what Lewinsky might be reading.He has allowed a witness who refused to talk to be kept in jail fornearly two years.Starr, having won a legal battle over the right to requireSidney Blumenthal, a presidential aide, to testify, filed a briefwith the Supreme Court, urging that he be let loose on variousother members of the White House staff, including SecretServicemen, who have never yet had to divulge the content ofprivate presidential conversations.
No matter: the truth must out.Those were the headlines.
But, on June 1, Starr also gave aspeech to a bar association in North Carolina, in which he expandedon his passion for the truth at some length.Even before this speech, it was often said that the prosecutor'smoral sense was unusually developed: he had grown up as the son ofa conservative minister in small-town Texas; he had never smoked ordrunk or cursed.It was also said that his lifestyle exuded disciplined devotion:his teenage hobby was shoe-polishing and his summer job was sellingBibles; and, though he is busy these days, he likes to rise earlyand jog to a creek near his house, where he pauses to sing a hymnand pray.It is not surprising, Starr says, that even though 25 out of 42presidents have been lawyers, the profession is held in contemptthese days.
One of the candidates in the Washington, D.C., mayoralprimary is campaigning on the fact that he is not a lawyer.The unwavering pursuit of truth should indeed animateprosecuting lawyers like himself; but if you run Starr's generalargument by Geoffrey Hazard, a law professor at the University ofPennsylvania who is America's leading legal ethicist, you get aninteresting reaction.Even though no lawyer should be party to perjury, defensecounsels have a duty to impede the search for truth in other ways.They may advise their clients to invoke the Constitution's FifthAmendment, which means they can refuse to testify.
They may arguethat incriminating evidence is inadmissible on technical grounds.Even if they know their client to be guilty, defense lawyers aresupposed to pick holes in the prosecution's arguments, and to gettheir clients off.A lawyer's first duty is to the client, not to the truth,because the alternative is terrible.
If lawyers refuse to defendclients whom they suspect to be guilty, then some defendants willappear in court without a lawyer.
If suspects know that lawyers maydesert them, they will not be able to confide in them and soprepare a good defense.The right to a fair trial cannot exist without defense lawyersdevoted to the business of defending.
It is for judges and juries and prosecutors to worry about truth.When Starr himself was defending tobacco companies some yearsago, and signing briefs arguing that nicotine might not beaddictive, he seemed to understand that the quest for truth must bebalanced against the rights of defendants.To be fair to Starr, hunting the Clintons is a soul-destroyingbusiness.
The president has used every legal trick available toslow the prosecutor's progress.
He has invoked executive privilegeto shield his staff from subpoenas; he has invoked attorney-clientprivilege when that failed.For the past year, the president has assured voters that scandalinvestigations will not distract him from the task of government;but this week (not for the first time) his lawyers claimed theopposite, in order to persuade a court to keep the investigators atbay.All these frustrations are taking their toll on the prosecutor.In the end, it is to be hoped, Starr may indeed get to the truth;if the truth does not get to him first.
(To publish this insightful 1,050-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
Kenneth Starr is out to get the truth about Bill Clinton.
Hewants the truth about a 20-year-old land deal called Whitewater.
Hewants the truth about a 24-year-old lady called Monica Lewinsky.To get that truth, Starr has done most things short of crackingkneecaps.
He has hidden a microphone on an accomplice.
He hassubpoenaed bookshop records to see what Lewinsky might be reading.He has allowed a witness who refused to talk to be kept in jail fornearly two years.Starr, having won a legal battle over the right to requireSidney Blumenthal, a presidential aide, to testify, filed a briefwith the Supreme Court, urging that he be let loose on variousother members of the White House staff, including SecretServicemen, who have never yet had to divulge the content ofprivate presidential conversations.
No matter: the truth must out.Those were the headlines.
But, on June 1, Starr also gave aspeech to a bar association in North Carolina, in which he expandedon his passion for the truth at some length.Even before this speech, it was often said that the prosecutor'smoral sense was unusually developed: he had grown up as the son ofa conservative minister in small-town Texas; he had never smoked ordrunk or cursed.It was also said that his lifestyle exuded disciplined devotion:his teenage hobby was shoe-polishing and his summer job was sellingBibles; and, though he is busy these days, he likes to rise earlyand jog to a creek near his house, where he pauses to sing a hymnand pray.It is not surprising, Starr says, that even though 25 out of 42presidents have been lawyers, the profession is held in contemptthese days.
One of the candidates in the Washington, D.C., mayoralprimary is campaigning on the fact that he is not a lawyer.The unwavering pursuit of truth should indeed animateprosecuting lawyers like himself; but if you run Starr's generalargument by Geoffrey Hazard, a law professor at the University ofPennsylvania who is America's leading legal ethicist, you get aninteresting reaction.Even though no lawyer should be party to perjury, defensecounsels have a duty to impede the search for truth in other ways.They may advise their clients to invoke the Constitution's FifthAmendment, which means they can refuse to testify.
They may arguethat incriminating evidence is inadmissible on technical grounds.Even if they know their client to be guilty, defense lawyers aresupposed to pick holes in the prosecution's arguments, and to gettheir clients off.A lawyer's first duty is to the client, not to the truth,because the alternative is terrible.
If lawyers refuse to defendclients whom they suspect to be guilty, then some defendants willappear in court without a lawyer.
If suspects know that lawyers maydesert them, they will not be able to confide in them and soprepare a good defense.The right to a fair trial cannot exist without defense lawyersdevoted to the business of defending.
It is for judges and juries and prosecutors to worry about truth.When Starr himself was defending tobacco companies some yearsago, and signing briefs arguing that nicotine might not beaddictive, he seemed to understand that the quest for truth must bebalanced against the rights of defendants.To be fair to Starr, hunting the Clintons is a soul-destroyingbusiness.
The president has used every legal trick available toslow the prosecutor's progress.
He has invoked executive privilegeto shield his staff from subpoenas; he has invoked attorney-clientprivilege when that failed.For the past year, the president has assured voters that scandalinvestigations will not distract him from the task of government;but this week (not for the first time) his lawyers claimed theopposite, in order to persuade a court to keep the investigators atbay.All these frustrations are taking their toll on the prosecutor.In the end, it is to be hoped, Starr may indeed get to the truth;if the truth does not get to him first.
(To publish this insightful 1,050-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
NEW YORK William Abrahams, a Harvard-bred poet who tried hishand at novels before finding a lasting literary niche as adistinguished book editor credited with almost single-handedlypreserving the short story as a viable genre, died Tuesday at hishome in Hillsborough, Calif.
He was 79 and had presided over theannual O. Henry short story awards for more than three decades.For Abrahams, a Boston-born lawyer's son who found his world inwords, the literary life was a quest, first to find the true turnof his own talent and later to seek out, celebrate, nurture andhone the talent of others.It was a measure of his success that he had not only maintainedhis own imprint since the 1970s, first with Holt, Rinehart andWinston, and since 1984 with Dutton, but that he had managed towork with authors like Joyce Carol Oates, Pauline Kael, LillianHellman, John Knowles, Shirley Hazzard and Jessica Mitford from aWest Coast base far from the Boston-New York publishing axis.By the time he found his way into editing in 1963, when a friendgot him a part-time job reading manuscripts for Atlantic MonthlyPress, Abrahams had learned a thing or two about the publishingprocess.Some of his early poems had appeared in literary magazines andbeen included in anthologies, and he had published fourwell-received novels.Chosen on the basis of his work for Atlantic, Abrahams, whobegan as an assistant to the previous editor, Richard Poirier,became the sole editor of the O. Henry Awards in 1965.
Until hisretirement in 1996, he was a powerful and often lonely champion ofthe oft-derided genre.Sure the short story had declined since the glory days of TheSaturday Evening Post and other defunct magazines, but Abrahamsfound enough worthy work in literary journals and other littlemagazines to make the annual O. Henry collections a recognizedtreasure.Although his imprimatur provided the first national recognitionfor scores of writers who went on to distinguished literarycareers, Abrahams did not shirk the famous.
A pushover for funnystories, he once awarded first prize to Woody Allen.By 1968 Abrahams was so well established that when Stansky, whohad been a young graduate student at Harvard when the two met, wasnamed associate professor of history at Stanford, Abrahams had notrouble moving his base to the West Coast.The Atlantic Monthly Press cheerfully made him West Coasteditor, something of a misnomer for a man whose authors lived allover the country.
As Abrahams once explained, he could workanywhere that had a telephone.Abrahams, whose wit and charm, not to mention his legendaryediting skills, inspired devoted loyalty in his authors, wouldprobably not have been allowed to retire if he wanted to, but hehad showed no sighs of abandoning his lifelong quest for literaryquality.The economies of the United States and Britain have moved insurprisingly similar ways in recent years, whether by coincidenceor because both freed their economies in the 1980s.
Now Britain'scentral bank has stunned observers by raising interest rates,posing the question whether the Federal Reserve will be the next todo so.The Bank of England boosted its base lending rate on Thursday bya quarter of a percentage point, to 7.5 percent.
It said it hadacted because of concerns that wages were rising too rapidly andconsumer spending was so brisk that a revival of inflation was aserious threat.Nearly all British economists who monitor the Bank of England 19-of-20, according to a poll by Bloomberg News had expected thecentral bank to leave rates unchanged.
That was largely because ofsigns that Britain's economy is slowing, particularly in exports.Both stock and bond prices fell in London after the bank's move wasannounced.There are obvious differences between the United States andBritain, but current economic arguments in both countries aresurprisingly similar.
There are inflationary pressures in the U.S.labor market, about which more will be known on Friday when theemployment figures for May are released, and consumer spending hasbeen very strong.
But inflation does not look like much of a threatwhen commodity prices are falling and there is fear that Asianweakness could slow the economy here.
So the Fed has not taken anyaction.It is one of thousands of recently established fundamentalistChristian schools across America, with a mission to major in JesusChrist and minor in everything else.Grace is housed in a small white clapboard schoolhouse beside adried-up creek in Mason, a pretty ranching town of 2,100 people.Step inside, and it is immediately clear that this is adifferent kind of school, with humble resources.
Desks line themain room.
Teenagers sit next to small children.
The atmosphere isattentive.
There are no classrooms as such, just a single teacherand two teaching assistants walking up and down.Grace has 35 children, aged 6 to 18.
Its largest-ever graduatingclass was three; but in recent years its graduates have gone on toWest Point and Texas AM University, among others.Because most of these schools do not report to the localeducational authorities, exact numbers are difficult to come by;but Christian Schools International, one of several umbrellaorganizations, claims about 3,200 member schools in the UnitedStates, with 600,000 pupils.The chief reason for their growth is frustration at the removalof God from the public schools.
But some parents have in generallost confidence in the state's ability to educate their children,and others question the government's right to dictate educationalstandards.When is a Christian school a fundamentalist school?
There are nohard-and-fast rules; but an unequivocal belief in creationism isprobably the most reliable indicator.Parents pay around $125 per child each year for books and coursematerials.
Some of these courses, such as grammar, are laudable fortheir basic approach.Larger fundamentalist schools charge fees and grantscholarships, but smaller ones have a different approach.
Grace istypical.
Its shoestring budget allows it to educate each child forroughly $1,000 a year.Every summer, parents sit down with the school to discuss howmuch they can afford to pay, ranging from $50 to $200 a month foreach child.
Teachers' pay is paltry.
Burges draws a salary onlywhen all the bills have been paid; in a good year he takes home$12,000.Unable to afford a laboratory, Grace uses the great outdoors asits classroom.
In deer season the whole school goes hunting (PE),butchers a deer (Biology), then cooks it (Home Economics) intovenison burgers for school lunch.
And everyone says grace first.
(To publish this interesting 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
By ALAN TRUEX c. 1998, Houston Chronicle ELMONT, N.Y.
Unlike most racetracks, Belmont Park is truly apark, with benches, ponds, trees and shrubs.
Outside the barn whereD.
Wayne Lukas tends his horses, oak trees stand like giant greenumbrellas.
Symbolic, perhaps, of the way Lukas has overshadowed hiscompetition the past decade and a half.Lukas clearly likes his name.
It is prominently displayed notonly across his barn but on his belt, on his yellow jacket and evenon his black cap.
Not that he needs people to notice him.
He hasled the nation's trainers in earnings for 14 of the last 15 years,and he ranks fourth all-time with 10 victories in Triple Crownevents.But he has been ineffective lately.
His best 3-year-old, CapeTown, ran fifth in the Kentucky Derby and ninth in the Preakness,when he fractured a foot.
He was retired, though not beforedelivering a parting shot, kicking Lukas in the head and drawingblood outside the Preakness barn.The Lukas bad luck continued Thursday, when he drew thefarthest-out post positions for Yarrow Brae and Grand Slam inSaturday's 130th Belmont Stakes.But some horsemen approached Grand Slam's owners expressingcondolences about the unlucky 13 post and commenting how everythingis going Bob Baffert's way.
Baffert is the trainer of Real Quiet,who is trying for the first Triple Crown sweep since Affirmed 20years ago.Real Quiet was listed as the 6-5 favorite in the officialmorning line, and Baffert was pleased with his No.
8 post,especially since the 7-2 second favorite, Victory Gallop, pulledNo.
11.In his only trip on an off track, Real Quiet ran eighth, whileGrand Slam, Yellow Brae and the Houston-connected Victory Gallopall have run well in mud.Only 11 horses in a century have won the Triple Crown, and 13have failed after taking the first two legs.Grand Slam, the third favorite in the Belmont field, was given6-1 odds to stop Real Quiet.
In the Experimental Free Handicap,Grand Slam was ranked second to Favorite Trick among 2-year-olds in1997.
He beat Lil's Lad and Halory Hunter in the 1-mile ChampagneStakes last October.
But the next month, he underwent surgery foran injury to his left hind leg.Lukas was criticized for rushing the healing process with GrandSlam, who ran sixth in the San Pedro Handicap in March.
The62-year-old trainer drew flak for entering the colt in theLexington Stakes in April.But third place in that race indicated a comeback wasprogressing.
That notion was confirmed by a two-length win in thePeter Pan Stakes two weeks ago at Belmont Park.As for Yarrow Brae, who will start in the 12th hole at Belmont,Lukas had hoped the Illinois Derby winner would have a monopoly onearly speed and steal a win.
But that hope was diminished by theunexpected entry Thursday of the front-running Flamingo Stakeswinner Chilito.It is one of thousands of recently established fundamentalistChristian schools across America, with a mission to major in JesusChrist and minor in everything else.Grace is housed in a small white clapboard schoolhouse beside adried-up creek in Mason, a pretty ranching town of 2,100 people.Step inside, and it is immediately clear that this is adifferent kind of school, with humble resources.
Desks line themain room.
Teenagers sit next to small children.
The atmosphere isattentive.
There are no classrooms as such, just a single teacherand two teaching assistants walking up and down.Grace has 35 children, aged 6 to 18.
Its largest-ever graduatingclass was three; but in recent years its graduates have gone on toWest Point and Texas AM University, among others.Because most of these schools do not report to the localeducational authorities, exact numbers are difficult to come by;but Christian Schools International, one of several umbrellaorganizations, claims about 3,200 member schools in the UnitedStates, with 600,000 pupils.The chief reason for their growth is frustration at the removalof God from the public schools.
But some parents have in generallost confidence in the state's ability to educate their children,and others question the government's right to dictate educationalstandards.When is a Christian school a fundamentalist school?
There are nohard-and-fast rules; but an unequivocal belief in creationism isprobably the most reliable indicator.Parents pay around $125 per child each year for books and coursematerials.
Some of these courses, such as grammar, are laudable fortheir basic approach.Larger fundamentalist schools charge fees and grantscholarships, but smaller ones have a different approach.
Grace istypical.
Its shoestring budget allows it to educate each child forroughly $1,000 a year.Every summer, parents sit down with the school to discuss howmuch they can afford to pay, ranging from $50 to $200 a month foreach child.
Teachers' pay is paltry.
Burges draws a salary onlywhen all the bills have been paid; in a good year he takes home$12,000.Unable to afford a laboratory, Grace uses the great outdoors asits classroom.
In deer season the whole school goes hunting (PE),butchers a deer (Biology), then cooks it (Home Economics) intovenison burgers for school lunch.
And everyone says grace first.
(To publish this interesting 625-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
NEW YORK Dr. Mallalieu S. Woolfolk, a lawyer who gave legaland political assistance to prominent black elected officials,including David Dinkins, Percy Sutton and Charles Rangel, died May30 at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J.
He was 92 and lived inTeaneck, N.J.Woolfolk, whose doctorate was in law, specialized in corporatelaw.
In recent years, although partly retired, he advised Sutton,the chairman emeritus of Inner City Broadcasting Corp., which ownsthe Manhattan-based radio station WLIB-AM, Queens Inner City UnityCable and other radio stations and ventures.
Earlier, Woolfolkprovided financial and legal assistance during the founding ofInner City Broadcasting.Woolfolk was also associate counsel of the Bill of RightsCommittee at the New York State Constitutional Convention in 1967and legal secretary to Oliver Sutton, a New York state SupremeCourt judge and a brother of Percy Sutton's.Woolfolk was long active in the political life of Harlem and NewYork City.
He assisted in Percy Sutton's successful campaigns forthe state Assembly and for Manhattan borough president.
He alsohelped Oliver Sutton become elected a Civil Court judge and then astate Supreme Court justice.
And he was active in the campaigns ofcongressman Rangel, former Mayor Dinkins and former state Sen.Basil Paterson.In addition, Woolfolk was director of training at the UpperManhattan Small Business Development Center, which has become theWorkshop in Business Opportunities Inc., a nonprofit organizationthat teaches New Yorkers how to become entrepreneurs.During World War II he served in the Army Air Forces as a memberof the all-black corps of pilots known as the Tuskegee Airmen.
Hebecame a captain and saw combat in the Mediterranean.Woolfolk was born and raised in Holly Springs, Miss.
His earlyeducation was in segregated schools.
He received a bachelor'sdegree in 1938 from Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Mo., anda master's degree in psychology in 1940 from the University ofMinnesota.
He then taught at Alabama State College before joiningthe Army Air Forces in 1942.He received his law degree in 1951 from De Paul University inChicago.
In the next two decades he was an energetic civil-rightsadvocate and became a figure in Harlem's political life.NEW YORK Sales are expected to restart next month at TurtleBay Towers, putting the 337-unit co-op at 310 East 46th St. back inthe market for the first time in a decade.The plan reached by the co-op board and Rockrose DevelopmentCorp., the sponsor is to improve the 26-story structure and sellthe 245 unsold apartments, many with terraces and greenhouses.Prices are expected to range from $135,000 to $400,000 for thestudio lofts and one- and two-bedroom apartments, with 550 to 1,600square feet.
Those prices, on average, are about 5 percent to 10percent higher than what the units sold for in 1988, when theyoriginally went on the market.Market-rate mortgages will also be available to buyers throughAmerican Home Mortgage, overcoming a financing difficulty oftenfaced by purchasers in buildings where fewer than 51 percent of theunits have been sold.
About 95 units are expected to come on themarket this year, starting with as many as 18 next month.The wedding-cake-style structure, between First and Secondavenues, was converted in 1988 from a rental that Rockrose hadreshaped 13 years earlier from a 1929 office and a light-industrialloft building that had been damaged by a natural-gas explosion in1973.Only 28 percent of the apartments were sold before the recessionhit and the market soured, as did the relationship between theco-op board and Rockrose, whose headquarters are in the building'sground-level commercial space.There are 68 apartments that are leased to rent-stabilizedtenants, who are allowed to remain in their units at regulatedrents.
An additional 177 apartments that are also owned by Rockroseare rented to tenants who replaced residents who had been living inthe building when it became a co-op.Tenants in these apartments are not protected by rentregulations, and the market rents that they pay had given Rockroselittle incentive to sell their units because the rents exceeded themonthly maintenance charges.Last fall, Rockrose and the co-op board, encouraged byManhattan's strong sales market, set their sights on the same goal:selling the unsold units.
After seven months of negotiations, theydevised a refinancing and buildingwide renovation program to makethe building more attractive.The building's $25 million mortgage was refinanced at a lowerinterest rate in April after Rockrose, which held the mortgage,agreed to waive all but $500,000 of an $11 million prepaymentpenalty.
The new $30 million loan is at a fixed interest rate of6.63 percent for 20 years instead of the original 10.53 percent,said Andrew Singer, chairman of Singer Bassuk Organization, whicharranged the financing for the co-op.
The lender was PruExpress, asubsidiary of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, which is basedin Newark, N.J.For Turtle Bay Towers, the new loan will enable the co-op boardto make repairs and reduce monthly maintenance fees by 10 percent.The projected monthly fees will range from $800 to $2,200 on mostapartments, though they will be as high as $2,700 on a few units.Rockrose, among other things, also will pay its share of thebuilding's improvements and sell the units a few at a time topeople who want to live in the building rather than in a bulk saleto investors.In exchange, the co-op extended Rockrose's lease on thecommercial space, hired the company to manage the building andagreed to the improvement program.Rockrose filed an amendment to its offering plan earlier thisweek with the New York state attorney general's office.
If it isaccepted, which is expected within 30 days, sales will begin.Tenants buying apartments, which feature 10- to 12-foot-highceilings and open floor plans, will be given priority, but not adiscount from the asking prices.
The units are to sell at anaverage price of about $250 for each square foot of space.For example, a one-bedroom unit with 850 square feet on theseventh floor is expected to cost $188,000.
In the area, from East43rd to East 46th streets and from First to Lexington Avenues, theaverage sale price of a one-bedroom co-op, typically with 843square feet, is $182,000, according to Corcoran Group, a brokerage.Singleton said the units would be renovated at a cost of $10,000to $12,000 as they became available.
Ten are now vacant, and whenleases expire they will generally not be renewed.NEW YORK State Republican leaders coalesced behind there-election campaign of Gov.
George Pataki on Thursday, offering adisplay of unity highlighted by an effusive public tribute by MayorRudolph Giuliani to two of his most famous rivals: Pataki and Sen.Alfonse D'Amato.Giuliani's conciliatory remarks the closest he has come toapologizing for fiercely opposing Pataki's campaign for governor in1994 were contained in what had been expected to be a routinefive-minute welcome to 406 Republican delegates assembling inManhattan for the Republican State Convention.Instead, Giuliani nearly overshadowed the renomination of Patakifor another four-year term.
The mayor spoke for 29 minutes in whatwas a clear effort to redeem himself with state Republican leaderswhose support could be critical to his future as a state ornational candidate.Giuliani's remarks came as the Republican Party effortlessly and, at times listlessly voted unanimously to designate Pataki asits candidate for re-election.
The party also nominated MaryDonohue, a New York state Supreme Court justice, for lieutenantgovernor, and Dennis Vacco for a second term as attorney general.The convention was in almost every sense different from theconvention of four years ago, when D'Amato's forces battled to thelast minute to prevent Pataki, then a little-known state senatorfrom Peekskill, from facing a primary for the nomination tochallenge Gov.
Mario Cuomo.William Powers, the state Republican Party chairman, read from ascript on the lectern, leading the state committee through themotions of ratifying a slate that was selected long before anystate committee members checked in at the Sheraton New York Hoteland Towers in Manhattan.Pataki then offered the outlines of what is shaping up, at leastin contrast to four years ago, as an unadventurous re-electionstrategy.
He described his accomplishments of the past four years,in particular cutting taxes, pushing for environmental protectionsand restoring the death penalty.
But he offered little insight intowhat he might do if re-elected, other than pushing for more taxcuts.By design, the day was supposed to be devoid of drama, so thatall attention was directed at Pataki.
But Giuliani, who has longhad a competitive relationship with the governor and who is likelyto compete further on the national stage, turned the dynamic withhis speech, which included a lengthy recital of his ownaccomplishments as mayor.Giuliani's welcoming speech was a minute longer than Pataki'sacceptance speech.
Asked how long Giuliani's speech was supposed tobe, Zenia Mucha, the governor's communications director, held upfive fingers, and glanced with exasperation at the stage.Giuliani's remarks bought a measure of disorder to a conventionclearly intended to be orderly.
Reporters were relegated to aseparate part of the room and kept away from delegates.Pataki/Donohue placards were neatly placed on every chair as thedelegates entered the room Thursday morning.
A news release thatwas issued before the gavel was dropped announced that Pataki hadbeen unanimously chosen.
The schedule even announced when the red,white and blue balloons hanging over the room would be dropped (at4 p.m. Thursday).Pataki, as is his practice, sought to glide above the politicsswirling around him, instead laying out themes of his campaign inhis speech.
The Democratic candidate will be chosen in a primarythis September.The governor painted a dark picture of New York under Democraticcontrol, and asserted that Republican policies had turned thingsaround.
He recalled being a member of the Assembly, pushing for taxcuts, reductions in the welfare rolls and the elimination of someregulations.NEW YORK As they stood together on the thick carpet of CityHall for the swearing-in ceremony a few days ago the father alegendary retired justice, the son just about to ascend to thebench it seemed to be a storybook moment of generational passage.The son recalled the moment 30 years before when his father tookthe oath, and even talked explicitly about the path of his father'sfootsteps.
The father beamed.But modern storybooks are rarely so pat, and it is clear thatthe footsteps of Gregory Carro, a newly minted judge of the NewYork City Criminal Court, will be his own, not be those of hiswell-known father.When John Carro was named a Criminal Court judge in 1968 byMayor John Lindsay, he was one of only two or three Puerto Ricanjudges in the city and the first from the Bronx.He enjoyed telling off a district attorney as much as telling ariotous story in chambers.
His battles with Mario Merola, theformer Bronx district attorney, were so protracted that the courtadministration felt it better to transfer him to Manhattan, wherehe eventually rose to become the state's highest-ranking PuertoRican judge, serving 16 years in the appellate division.
And whentwo New York senators nominated him to become a federal judge in1988, the Reagan and Bush administrations sat on his nomination forthree years, telling him they were not interested in activistjudges.
He finally withdrew his name angrily in 1991.Greg Carro, by contrast, has entered the judiciary in an era oflower volume and more relaxed expectations.
There are now about 40Hispanic judges in the city not enough for his father, but enoughto ease some of the role-model pressure from his shoulders.He is reserved and careful where his father was outspoken andcolorful, and his views on maintaining an ethnic balance on thecourts are more in tune with the man who appointed him to the$103,800-a-year job, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.Greg Carro, who is 38, said he did not even realize his fatherwas an outspoken liberal when he was growing up.
By then, the Carrofamily had moved from the Bronx to a more spacious home in Yonkers,later moving again to the far suburbs of Rockland County, and thejudge did not bring his politics or his cases home to the kitchentable.The seven children in the family had the kind of comfortablemiddle-class existence John Carro never knew as a child, and therewas never any question but that they would enter the kinds ofprofessions their father had aspired to.
(Of the seven, four arelawyers and one is a doctor.
)It's a familiar pattern of assimilation, but the pathway israrely as thoroughly paved by one generation for another.Unlike his father, a former defense lawyer, Greg Carro came tothe law through the enforcement side.
He has been a prosecutorsince graduating from Rutgers Law School in 1985, first for thecity's special narcotics prosecutor and most recently for theManhattan district attorney's office, and he has made a specialtyof successfully prosecuting drug gangs.
After 13 years on the job,he submitted his name as a candidate for a judgeship, seeing it asa logical progression from his work as a prosecutor and hisfather's ideals of public service.There is one page of the storybook that applies, however: theson will be getting his father's robe.For six hours a day, nearly every day since he decided inJanuary to run for the 20th Congressional District seat, Feiner hasbeen on the telephone trying to raise the $600,000 that hisadvisers say he needs to unseat the Republican incumbent, Rep.Benjamin Gilman.Although he is a seasoned local politician, Feiner said he wassurprised to discover that running in a national race was almostentirely about fund raising.
Campaigning in a townwide election, hesaid, requires more legwork and more handshaking than it doesmoney.Feiner, 42, became involved in politics as a campaign volunteerat 13 (after a rabbi persuaded him, during his bar mitzvah, not tobecome a rabbi).
He was a Westchester County legislator for eightyears before being elected Greenburgh town supervisor in 1991.Greenburgh includes villages along the Hudson River fromHastings-on-Hudson to Tarrytown, as well as Ardsley, Elmsford andHartsdale.If running a national race has been an education, Feiner hasbeen a difficult student.
He is so contemptuous of the money end ofpolitics that his fund-raising manager and campaign consultant quitin May, frustrated because he would not follow their advice.He made lists, as he was advised to do, of everyone who didbusiness in the Town of Greenburgh developers, real estateagents, merchants, corporate directors and called them to solicitsupport.
He listened to the professionals' tactics and then ignoredtheir suggestions.For all his fumbling, most people who knew Feiner gavesomething.
Some wanted something back.
The most egregious caseinvolved a lawyer he met at a fund-raiser who offered cash and anintroduction to important people in Rockland and Orange counties,where Feiner is little known and his opponent, Gilman, is verypopular.The lawyer made it clear he wanted to be given town legal workin exchange for his support.
When Feiner balked, the man withdrewthe offer.So far, hundreds of people in the 20th Congressional District,which stretches to Rockland, Orange and Sullivan counties, havecontributed a total of $135,000 to Feiner's campaign.
It is farmore than the $70,000 he raised for any of his local races, but notenough to buy the television and radio ads and pay for the mailingsto reach people in the sprawling district.The opposing campaign agrees.
Gilman, 75, is chairman of theinfluential International Relations Committee and is seeking his14th term in Congress.
He plans to raise about $600,000, said SandiThoby, controller for Citizens for Gilman.If Feiner does not raise enough money to win, he can still hopeto run well and position himself for the future, said LeeMiringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for PublicOpinion.Feiner, who is married to a lawyer, Sherrie Brown, got his startas a political noodge.
An avid bicyclist, he badgered theWestchester County Legislature to create bike lanes along the BronxRiver Parkway until it finally gave in.Feiner once tried to establish a town matchmaking service forlonely suburban singles, though the plan was later simplified totown-sponsored singles events, like dances.He addresses criticism by trying to include everyone ingovernment.
First, Feiner established the call-in town meeting, inwhich people can stay home, watch the meeting on cable televisionand phone in a comment.
Now he has a deputy-supervisor program, andhe makes political foes his deputies on special issues to bringthem into the decision-making process.
By EDDIE SEFKO c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SALT LAKE CITY The way the Chicago Bulls continue to talk the bigtalk, they surely must be the most dominant team ever to fallbehind 1-0 in the NBA Finals.Even though they have lost their last four road games and,apparently, the snap and mystique that have made them one of theNBA's dynasties, the Bulls say their will to win is stronger thanever.But the facts do nothing to support their case that this is thesame Bulls team that confidently and routinely wins tight games andresists those muscle-tightening situations because they are whothey are.Even the Utah Jazz, who will go for a 2-0 lead tonight at theDelta Center, notices the difference.Russell ended up being one of those mismatches whenever he linedup against Toni Kukoc.
Russell had 15 points and eight rebounds inGame 1; Kukoc had nine points and three rebounds.That no doubt makes Phil Jackson happy.
What would make theZen-spouting coach happier is if the Bulls would prove againtonight in Game 2 they haven't slipped a notch or two when it comesto being clutch performers.After one game of the Finals, it's far too early to write offthe Bulls.
But Jackson said Thursday that his team was showing itsage, mainly because the Bulls were tired at the end of Game 1.He cited two plays Jordan's inability to elevate andsubsequent shot-clock violation with 1:19 left in overtime andSteve Kerr's hack of John Stockton when a still-fresh-lookingStockton drove for a layup.
The three-point play put Utah ahead byfive points in overtime.The Jazz was vastly superior to the Bulls in the overtime.Whether or not it was the fatigue taking its toll on Chicago, whichwas playing its sixth game in 12 days and facing the Jazz, whichwas coming off 10 days of rest, the Bulls did not look likethemselves.What might help the Bulls is diversity.
Jordan and Pippencombined for 48 of the Bulls' 82 shots and for 54 of their 85points.Shandon Anderson, a member of Utah's productive bench, whichoutscored Chicago's reserves 22-8, said he believes such numbersdon't work in the Bulls' favor.
Anderson said he believes the Bullsmight be too reliant on Jordan.
When the Bulls give the basketballto Jordan, it's almost as if they rest and watch.Then, at the end, Jordan and Pippen were fatigued and hadtrouble making plays.
They were a combined 1-for-4 from the fieldin overtime.The all-media wake for Frank Sinatra and the countdown thatpreceded it took me back to April 1984, when I first dipped my toeinto the ghoul pool.You've heard about the office football pool, and the baseballRotisserie league.
But incredibly tasteless as it seems, countlessworkplaces are also offering the dead pool, a funereal game ofwagering on when celebrities will meet their demise.Neatly pairing two of America's prime obsessions fame anddeath the game is another variation on your typical water-coolersport.
Only instead of betting on scores, players toss penniesagainst death's door.To beat the odds, poolers scour the tabloids and gossip columnsfor hints about their candidates' continued viability.
The aged orthe terminally ill don't score the ghoulish competitor many points,but who could have foreseen the recent untimely exits of SonnyBono, Chris Farley or John Denver?As appalling as betting on the prospect of death may be,wagering in the twilight zone is apparently appealing to a growingnumber of Americans if the rise in the number of Web sitesdedicated to the subject is any gauge.Dead-pool playbooks vary, but the most common version requirescontestants to compile a mortfolio of 10 celebrities they expect todie and then submit it with an entrance fee by the beginning ofeach year.
Come Dec. 31, the most prescient player wins.
Deaths and celebrity are typically confirmed by an Associated Pressobituary.
Without that, you're nothing.In some games, only one player can hold rights to a givencelebrity; others require a payoff upon each celebrity's passing,rather than a once-a-year accounting.
In many pools, the payoff isfar greater for choices with lower odds of mortality, which is whatso troubled trader Dave about Marvin Gaye.But perhaps not until it got to Wall Street where betting islike breathing did the ghoul pool find a permanent home.In large law firms, ghoul lagoons are often gurgling in the backof some paralegal's cubicle.
A mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer atWachtell, Lipton, Rosen Katz in New York City says his name wouldbe the next to surface in his firm's pool if such unjudicialshenanigans were publicized.Just as laptop computer technology has enabled day trading anddesktop publishing to flourish outside the office, so the Webbrowser has brought ghoul pools to life for the average investor.It is now possible to play such diverse and painfully tacky venues as the Lee Atwater Invitational Dead Pool, Not Your Mother'sDead Pool, Dewey's Death Pool, Chalk Outlines and Dead Club, toname but a handful.The Atwater Invitational, named after the take-no-prisoners GOPcampaign strategist who died in 1991 at age 40 of brain cancer(http://stiffs.com), was started that year by Zachariah Love, avenue-booker in Los Angeles.Love moved the game to the Web in 1996, where it now has almost600 players paying an $11 entrance fee for a shot at the $1,500annual prize.Interest in Internet versions has grown to the point where somepools are specializing in picking death days for one celebrity.Several months ago, Michael Moore, a student at California StateUniversity at Long Beach and the operator of Tregoire's 1998 DeadPool (www.flash.net/mmoore72/deadpool.htm) spun off a Sinatra-onlysite.
Lucas Trerice, 20, a student at University of Washington, wonby taking the midpoint of guesses.To indicate how quickly attitudes have shifted on the subject ofdeath or of good taste when Ms. Rutherford first asked Yahoo,the Web indexer, to list her site three years ago, executives saidthe content wasn't appropriate.
Today, Yahoo lists 18 ghoul pools,including Ms. Rutherford's, which gets more than 1,000 hits a week.And as for Dave, my disgruntled Amex floor trader, the firstlady of the American stage was in no hurry to accommodate him.Helen Hayes took her final bow nine years later, with dignity, atage 92.Almost everywhere you turn, the financial services industry isoffering free software to analyze whether you should convert yourtraditional Individual Retirement Account to a new Roth IRA, whichallows tax-free withdrawals.Say you have $100,000 in your IRA and expect to stay in the 28percent tax bracket, that you anticipate 8 percent annual pretaxgrowth and that you will take all your money in a lump sum 20 yearsfrom now.The analyzer disk distributed by T. Rowe Price, the Baltimoremutual fund company, calculates that after you have paid taxes upfront to convert to a Roth, you will have $466,096 to spend in2018.
That is a hefty 12.4 percent more than the $414,649 aftertaxes at withdrawal if you stick with a traditional IRA.But plug the same facts into the Roth analyzer from MerrillLynch and it calculates that you will have far less, no matter whatyou do: $390,843 if you convert to a Roth and $335,589 if you donot.The calculator of Strong Funds, the mutual fund company based inMenomonee Falls, Wis., generates the same figure as T. Rowe Priceif you convert and the same as Merrill Lynch if you don't.Not everyone can convert: To qualify, you must have less than$100,000 of adjusted gross income (the last number on the frontpage of your Form 1040 tax return).If you convert this year, Congress has a special deal thetaxes due at conversion must be paid in four annual installments,which amounts to a slight discount on the tax bill.
People whoconvert in future years must pay the taxes all at once.The multitude of Roth analyzers, even when they use the samemethodology, often generate slightly different figures because ofsubtle differences in their programs, like whether earnings arecompounded annually or daily, and whether the taxes are assumed tobe paid on Jan. 1 or April 15.If you expect your tax rate to be higher when you retire than itis now, switch to a Roth.
But if you expect your tax rate to fall,the decision gets complicated, depending on how much your tax ratedrops and how many years will pass before you retire.The T. Rowe Price, Merrill Lynch and Strong calculators come upwith different figures because each treats taxes differently especially the upfront payments to be made when converting atraditional IRA to the Roth version.You must pay income taxes on your traditional IRA when youwithdraw the money, either years from now in retirement orimmediately if you convert to a Roth.All three companies assume that if you convert today, you willmove your entire IRA balance to a Roth and pay the taxes from someother source.
But they track that side fund for tax payments indifferent ways.T.
Rowe Price assumes that if you convert, you will take themoney from taxable savings, and that if you do not convert, thatthe taxable savings account will continue to grow in tandem withyour IRA and at the same rate as the IRA, minus taxes.Strong Funds just ignores the taxable savings account in itsanalysis, though it does refer to it in its fine print withoutcalculating the financial impact.Byron Vielehr, Strong's vice president for electronicdistribution, said that was done to avoid raising other complexissues like capital gains taxes that may be due if the taxes arepaid from the proceeds of selling appreciated securities.Gordon Goodfellow, a retirement specialist at Watson WyattWorldwide, a compensation consultancy, said T. Rowe Price'stechnique was the best because it compared apples with apples forboth strategies.Joseph Mintz, a semi-retired Dallas insurance agent and consumeradvocate who for 30 years has pressed banks, insurers and theInternal Revenue Service to make fuller disclosures about how theydo their calculations, said that using any technique but the oneadopted by T. Rowe Price made it impossible to compare on an annualbasis whether you would benefit more from sticking with yourtraditional IRA or converting to a Roth.When the fire alarm went off during a lunchtime workout lastmonth at the YMCA at Lexington Avenue and 53rd Street, it waseverybody out of the basement pool.As a programmer for Prodigy in the early 1990s, Paul R. Loringof Pleasantville, N.Y., was accustomed to wearing casual clothingin the office while the rest of the staff was wearing suits.Holly M. Horning, the president of Image Design Group ofAlexandria, Va., which teaches individuals and companies how to useimage as a tool, works daily with the problem of office dress.
Inthe course of her work, she has come across: A senior executive who runs several miles to work in histwo-piece jogging suit and then strips to his T-shirt and runningshorts and begins work without bothering to shower.
A senior partner in a law firm who wore a polo shirt and jeanswhile greeting prospective clients in a major case.
Judging him byhis clothing, they assumed he was an associate and went elsewhere,offended because they thought the firm had assigned their case toan inexperienced lawyer.
A woman who sent productivity plummeting by arriving for herjob in the shortest of Lycra miniskirts and a strapless, stretchybandeau top.Like many people, the doctor and his associate believed thatCasual Friday would spin out of control.Arlene B. Isaacs, a New York City business consultant andexecutive coach, remembers a 26-year-old client who took theinterpretation to extremes.At their first meeting, Ms. Isaacs recalled, the client worehigh-heeled sandals and was encased in a floral polyester jumpsuit,worn without a bra; her fingernails and toenails were paintedblack, which matched the roots of her dyed blond hair.Peter Giuliano, the chairman and founder of ExecutiveCommunications Group, a consulting firm in Englewood, N.J., recallsan instructor who led a program in media training for a client inTennessee.Part of the program dealt with how to dress for a toughon-camera interview, and how to handle the questions.
Because theparticipants were field technicians at a chemical plant, theinstructor disregarded their casual attire at the session workboots, overalls and T-shirts.One of the workers, however, had soot on his face and wore a redbandanna around his neck, so the instructor gently told him to washfor his final on-camera interview the next day.The client did as told, turning up clean and shiny.
He wouldhave made a perfect spokesman for the company, except for onedetail.Because this was the company's official casual day, he left hisdentures at home.NEW YORK Opening a new front in the battle over the future ofYankee Stadium, George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner,all but threatened Thursday night to leave New York City unlessPeter Vallone, the City Council speaker, abandoned his push for areferendum on whether city money should be used to help build a newball park.Steinbrenner's comments came only hours after City Councilleaders, in a rare act of defiance of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani,unveiled their own plan for the city's next budget.
For the lastseveral days, the mayor and the City Council have been deadlockedover the budget because of Giuliani's refusal to consider anychanges proposed by the council unless Vallone abandoned his callfor a public vote on the stadium issue.In his statement, Steinbrenner accused Vallone of using thereferendum to bolster his campaign for governor, and added:The Yankees owner's words were the strongest he has used so faron the subject of the team's future home, and they came a monthafter Steinbrenner stated that he would refrain from discussing theteam's future until the end of the season because, he said, theissue had become too emotional and politicized.Colleen Roche, a spokeswoman for the mayor, said she was unawareof Steinbrenner's five-paragraph statement, which echoed many ofthe criticisms of Vallone that Giuliani and his aides had voicedhours earlier.
But aides to the council speaker accused the mayorof pressing Steinbrenner to issue the statement.Vallone has argued that the voters should have a say in whetherto use hundreds of millions of dollars in public money for sportsstadiums.
Giuliani has contended that such a vote would galvanizeopposition to the idea of building a new stadium on the West Sideof Manhattan and push the Yankees owner to look for a new stadiumsite in New Jersey.The war of words came at the close of a day in which Vallone andthe mayor wrangled aggressively over the budget and its tangledconnection with the stadium issue.With the negotiations stalled over the budget, the counciloffered its own proposal that is expected to be approved Friday.That plan, at $34.08 billion, was actually $49 million less thanthe budget proposed by the mayor a few weeks ago, and contained afew hundred million dollars in changes that, especially in a yearof a $2 billion record surplus, could be expected to be ironed outeasily through the usual give-and-take of budget talks.Nevertheless, the two sides spent the day warring and accusingeach other of fiscal recklessness and political duplicity.The council has never adopted its own budget since acquiring thepower to do so under the City Charter revision of 1989.
And if, asexpected, the overwhelmingly Democratic council approves theVallone budget, the action is likely to trigger a series of legalbattles with the mayor, possibly beginning with a veto within thenext five days.A vote for a separate budget would abruptly end a long period offiscal harmony between the city's two most powerful politicians,whose annual budget negotiations have been complicated this year byVallone's gubernatorial ambitions and Giuliani's desire to secure anew home for the Yankees.Both men were able to iron out painful cuts during the recessiona few years ago; this year, New York's current financial boom hasgiven them ample room to propose costly, and competing, projects.The mayor who wants to use $600 million over the next fewyears to help pay for new ball parks, including a possible Yankeestadium on Manhattan's West Side demanded that the speaker drophis push for a referendum that would ask voters whether taxpayers'money should be used for ball parks.
Vallone, one of severalDemocrats hoping to oppose Gov.
George Pataki in November, refusedto even discuss the topic.At the same time, the council speaker pushed for steep cuts inthe city's personal income tax, a proposal intended to give him astrong selling point on the stump and to pre-empt any criticismthat he has supported tax increases in the past.
In an apparentreversal, the Republican mayor opposed these tax cuts, arguing thatthe city could not afford them.The cuts, which would cost the city about $201 million inrevenues in the next budget and more than $500 million a year afterthat, could also jeopardize Giuliani's plan to use at least $600million from a commercial rent tax to help pay for new stadiums,especially if Wall Street's torrent into the city coffers turnsinto a trickle.Council leaders included the tax cuts in the spending plan thatthey released Thursday.
That plan also seeks to retire $165 millionin debt; it restores cuts by the mayor and finances some newprograms, including recycling, library services, after-schoolprograms and day-care services.In the spending plan, the council said it could finance itsgoals by cutting $112 million from various city agencies, and byrecalculating savings the city would get from reduced welfarerolls, lower interest rates paid on its long-term debt, and otherareas.
Joseph Lhota, the mayor's budget director, described theseassumptions as risky.Mastro declined to say whether Giuliani would veto items fromthe plan or veto it entirely, which he would have to do byWednesday.
Although the council could then override his veto, themayor has said that he would impound city funds to spend onprograms which would likely move the fight from the City Charterto the courts.
The city's new fiscal year begins on July 1.As the city government prepared to deal for the first time witha nonconsensus budget, some officials bemoaned that the breakdownwould ultimately hurt taxpayers.While others scramble to divine the stock market impact of, say,a nuclear test on the Indian subcontinent, the folks who run theCalvert World Values International Equity fund spend much of theirtime on a broader question.
Is the nuclear testing right or wrong?The first thing investors should know is that the ethicalcompass used by Calvert World Values differs from of domesticCalvert siblings a difference that the company readilyacknowledges.For example, Calvert expects its American companies to derivevirtually none of their revenues from tobacco or alcohol.
ButCalvert World Values can invest in companies that derive as much as10 percent of their revenues from tobacco or alcohol.The fund cannot buy shares of companies that earn more than 10percent of their revenue from weapons contracting, which is thesame restriction its parent applies in the United States.
But inAmerica, Calvert applies extra screens, for example, knocking offall companies that net the top 85 percent of the DefenseDepartment's weapons contracts.There are some absolutes.
The fund will not buy shares incompanies that use child labor or forced labor.
And because theircountries are on Calvert's short list of human-rights abusers, thefund would be hard-pressed to own shares in companies based inBurma, China or Nigeria.How does the fund work?
The portfolio is managed by Andrew V.Preston, director of Murray Johnstone International, based inGlasgow, Scotland.
Preston starts with a top-down approach,searching for markets that are relatively undervalued.
Then, he andseven Murray Johnstone analysts search for stocks with goodearnings-growth potential and reasonable valuations.After Preston has selected a list of likely stocks, he goesthrough the social criteria prepared by Calvert and tosses outthose that don't make the grade.
(Calvert won't say how many.
)When the fund decided that Germany was looking attractive, itzeroed in on Daimler-Benz.
That automaker did not fit its socialcriteria Calvert won't say why so the fund bought Volkswageninstead.Since its inception in July 1992, Calvert World has returned10.8 percent, annualized, compared with 11.5 percent for theaverage foreign stock fund, according to Morningstar Inc., thefinancial publisher in Chicago.
But through May 29, its three-yearaverage annualized total return was 14 percent, versus 12.5 percentfor its average peer fund.
For the 12-month period, it returned15.2 percent, versus 13.8 for its average peer.As for the fund's biggest current holdings, there are a lot ofstaid financial firms: Zurich Insurance of Switzerland, BanqueNational de Paris and Fortis, a Belgian insurance company.Currently, Preston's favorite market is Britain, at 19 percentof the fund; followed by France, 14 percent, and Japan, 11 percent.The fund does not put its money to work in markets that might seemto need it most.
Just 10 percent of the fund is in emergingmarkets.
And it has not decided whether to avoid India or Pakistanbecause of the nuclear tests.NEW YORK A federal judge in Manhattan ruled Thursday that ajury may be told of allegations of an earlier incident of policebrutality by Francis Livoti.
The former police officer is chargedwith violating the civil rights of Anthony Baez, a Bronx man whodied after he was choked during a 1994 arrest.In the earlier incident, Livoti was accused of slapping andchoking a Bronx teen-ager named Steven Resto in 1993.
Livoti waslater convicted in that assault, and sentenced to 7 1/2 months inprison.Judge Shira Scheindlin's decision to allow prosecutors to usethe Resto incident in Livoti's civil-rights trial is a setback forthe defense of the former police officer, who was dismissed fromthe force last year.In 1996, Livoti was acquitted on state charges in connectionwith Baez's death in a trial in which a judge said that he wouldnot allow allegations of other cases of misconduct to be introducedat trial.Judge Scheindlin set a hearing for Tuesday to consider the thirdincident prosecutors are seeking to use at trial.
According to thegovernment's account in court papers, Livoti was in the process ofarresting one man, Manuel Bordoy, in 1990 by twisting his armbehind his back, when a second man, Ivan Cruz, approached and toldLivoti that he was being unnecessarily rough.
The two men werereturning home to the Bronx from a nightclub in Manhattan.Livoti then punched Bordoy in the face twice, breaking his jawin three places, the prosecutors said.
They said that Cruz wascharged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, but thosecharges were dismissed.
Bordoy was also charged with resistingarrest, but was acquitted following a trial, the prosecutors said.Livoti's lawyer, Stuart London, declined comment Thursday nighton Judge Scheindlin's ruling, but had objected earlier in court tothe government's attempt to introduce the 1990 and 1993 incidents.London had argued that they could prejudice the jury as it weighedthe evidence against Livoti in Baez's death, the only incident forwhich he has been charged with a federal violation of civil rights.London said Thursday night that his client, who has pleaded notguilty in the civil rights case, denies using any excessive forcein any of the incidents raised by the government.
If convicted,Livoti faces up to 10 years in prison.NEW YORK A third of the 162-season is complete, and the NewYork Yankees are on a pace to win 123 games after beating TampaBay, 6-1, at Yankee Stadium Thursday night.
But the Yankees willhave to play at least the next two weeks without star shortstopDerek Jeter.Jeter, perhaps the Yankees' best player in the first two monthsof the season, was placed on the 15-day disabled list Thursday witha strained abdominal muscle, an injury he sustained while taking aswing in Wednesday night's game.
In his absence Thursday night, theYankees (41-13) pummeled the Devil Rays' Dennis Springer, who hasnine losses since April 7 the same number the Yankees' entireteam has in the same period.
Hideki Irabu allowed only six hits andone run in 7 1/3 innings, and Bernie Williams had three hits andtwo runs batted in.Jeter is hitting .325 with eight home runs and 34 RBI.
He hasscored 52 runs, the most of any player in the major leagues, andbefore his injury he ranked eighth in the American League inbatting average, second in hits, seventh in multihit games, seventhin stolen bases.
Many in the game believe that if the season wereto end today, Jeter could be the American League's most valuableplayer.Jeter, 23, swung and missed in the fifth inning of Wednesday'sgame and immediately stiffened with pain.
Jeter tried some practiceswings, pronounced himself fit and continued his at-bat, groundingout.
But after trying some throws before the next half-inning,Jeter walked off, replaced by Luis Sojo, and was found to have amild abdominal strain.
Torre said he expected Jeter to be ready bythe end of the 15 days on the disabled list, but noted thesometimes indefinable nature of abdominal strains.
Sometimes anabdominal injury heals quickly, sometimes it lingers, and thisearly in the season, the Yankees want to be sure.Sojo, who after Thursday night's 0-for-4 is batting .174 inlimited action, will start in Jeter's place, with Scott Brosiusmoving from the bottom of the order to fill the No.
2 slot whereJeter has batted all season.
The Yankees are somewhat vulnerable,however, because their Class AAA shortstop, Gabby Martinez, is outof action because of personal problems.Lessening the blow, however, is the fact that the Yankees are ina stretch of games against truly bad teams.
They beat the haplessChicago White Sox on Monday and Tuesday, play host to thedismantled Florida Marlins in a three-game interleague seriesbeginning Friday night and then travel to Montreal for a three-gameseries next week.And they completed a two-game wipeout of Tampa Bay Thursdaynight.
Orlando Hernandez mesmerized the Devil Rays on Wednesday,and Irabu (5-1) overpowered them Thursday night, striking out six.He struck out the side in the fourth, whiffing Fred McGriff, PaulSorrento and Bobby Smith in order.
Graeme Lloyd finished the lastinning and two-thirds.The Yankees jumped on Springer early, effectively deciding theoutcome in the first three innings.
Springer walked Tino Martinezto open the Yankees' second inning before Williams hit the first ofhis three singles.
Darryl Strawberry then blooped a hit overshortstop, and when the ball skipped past left fielder Dwight Winn,Martinez scored.
Williams scored later in the inning.Williams, who was named the AL player of the month for May,slapped a two-run single in the third inning, giving the Yankees a4-1 advantage; Williams has 26 RBI in his last 23 games.
PaulO'Neill capped the Yankees' scoring in the seventh with a solo homerun.These Yankees continue to play on the fringes of history: Thebest 54-game start in club history was achieved by the 1939Yankees, who were 43-11.
They lead second-place Boston by 10 gamesin the loss column in the AL East; Baltimore, in fourth place, is15{ games behind.
The Yankees could win just half of theirremaining 108 games and finish with a 95-67 record, and that, initself, probably would be good enough to qualify for thepostseason.The Yankees traded pitcher Willie Banks to the ArizonaDiamondbacks for a right-handed reliever, Scott Brow, and a minorleague pitcher, Joe Lisio.
Brow, 29, flew across country and wasactivated for Thursday night's game to replace Derek Jeter on theroster.
Brow, 29, had a 7.17 earned run average in 17 appearancesfor the Diamondbacks.
Banks, 29, went 1-1 with a 10.05 ERA in nineappearances this season before being designated for assignment lastweek.
Lisio is being assigned to Class AA.
By CARLTON THOMPSON c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN DIEGO Mike Hampton's command abandoned him on day when AndyAshby happened to be conducting a seminar on the subject.In a nutshell, that summed up the Astros' 5-1 loss to the SanDiego Padres on Thursday at Qualcomm Stadium.Ashby lectured the Astros' bats with an assortment of pitchesthat ranked among the best they had seen all season.
Therighthander sprinkled eight hits over nine innings to notch histhird consecutive complete game and his fourth of the season.Moises Alou's homer leading off the ninth inning spoiled Ashby'sshutout bid, but that was about the only mistake the hot-handedpitcher made all day.For one of the few times this season, Hampton was at the otherend of the spectrum although he still managed to keep the Astrosclose.
Hampton held the Padres to five hits in 6 innings, but hewalked five batters.Two of the walks led to runs, but they proved to be meaningless.Ashby got all the run support he needed in the first inning whenGreg Vaughn hit a two-run homer to left.The loss cut the Astros' National League Central Division leadover the idle Chicago Cubs to one game and left them with a 3-3record on the six-game road trip to Colorado and San Diego.The Astros missed Padres ace Kevin Brown, but they couldn'tdodge the hottest pitcher in San Diego's rotation.
Ashby, who hadeight strikeouts Thursday, is 2-1 with a 1.73 ERA in his last threestarts.With the exception of Alou's 12th homer, the Astros didn't get arunner into scoring position after the second inning.The Astros got off to an inauspicious start when Quilvio Verasled off first with what appeared to be a bloop single.
Centerfielder Carl Everett charged the ball and nearly made the play, butit got past him and Veras was credited with a double.That all but assured Hampton (7-3) would have to face Vaughn,one of the hottest hitters in the majors, with a runner in scoringposition.
Vaughn's homer was his third in the series and his fifthagainst the Astros in six games.Hampton retired eight batters in a row after Vaughn's homer andfaced 13 batters before he allowed another hit.
Veras broke throughwith a single in the fifth to score Andy Sheets, who had drawn aleadoff walk.
The Padres added two runs in the seventh on a squeezebunt by Ashby (7-4) and a sacrifice fly by Veras.
c. 1998, Houston Chronicle ELMONT, N.Y.
The nagging question Thursday no pun intended was this: If Real Quiet is in a class of his own, why are a dozencolts so eager to challenge him in the Belmont Stakes?The ultimate matchup, of course, was assured once this dark bayemerged from the bargain basement to win the Kentucky Derby and thePreakness.
The bigger race is Real Quiet against the years, andagainst the world.When Affirmed held off Alydar to win the Triple Crown 20 yearsago, the last time it was done, only four colts bothered to runagainst them in the Belmont.
The size of Saturday's field speaks tothe history of this event and the delayed judgment on Real Quiet.Arrayed against the Bob Baffert entry is Victory Gallop, thebest of the dirty dozen, and an outbreak of human nature.
Of the 11horses who made the sweep, six led from wire to wire, and theirnames have the sound of trumpets.
Secretariat and Count Fleet ranvirtually alone.
The others who won from start to finish were WarAdmiral, Seattle Slew and Affirmed.This is a schizoid time for racing fans, who crave anotherTriple Crown winner to uplift the sport, but worry the newestcontender might be unworthy of such elite company.
The naysayersrate Real Quiet as a good horse, getting better, in a less thanvintage year.But the Belmont is often a cure for skepticism.
This is wherechampions come to get their tickets punched, and their namesimmortalized.
As Baffert points out, it isn't Real Quiet's fault somany promising rivals met with misfortune, like characters in ascript by Agatha Christie.The Belmont has a mystique all its own.
To begin with, theracetrack is an hour by train from the sidewalks of New York, whichmeans that if you can make it here you can make it anywhere.
TheLong Island area drips with history.
The nearby Roosevelt Field,now a shopping center, is built on property that once included the300-foot, dirt runway used by Amelia Earhart.
She is referred tolocally as the last woman to leave Roosevelt Field without buyinganything.Primarily, it is the unsparing physical demands of the Belmontthat offers Real Quiet his passport to greatness.
At a mile andhalf, the race is a throwback to another America, when the PonyExpress delivered the mail and the premium was on endurance, notspeed.
You might conclude the postal priorities haven't changedmuch, but this is certain: horses that win the Belmont are notforgotten.That was 25 years ago.
Secretariat, with Ron Turcotte in thesaddle, was expected to be threatened by Sham, a terrific coltridden by Lafitte Pincay.The Triple Crown and more than $5 million in bonus purses awaita victory by Real Quiet on Saturday.
But whether the pace is fastor slow, this will be the Belmont's anniversary waltz.
Fifty yearsafter Citation's stunning victory, 25 for Secretariat and 20 forAffirmed.
Since 1984, no Belmont winner has won it wire to wire,and none has come from more than four lengths back in the finalhalf-mile.A year ago, Touch Gold trailed with a furlong to go, and roaredpast Silver Charm at the finish, denying Bob Baffert a TripleCrown.
He is the first trainer in this century to win the KentuckyDerby and Preakness in back-to-back years, and he believes theBelmont owes him one.
He is 0-for-7 in New York.Anyone who has walked past a stable will tell you horses have apersonality, even an attitude.
After Secretariat's triple, Mrs.Chenery, then known as Penny Tweedy, commissioned the artist LeRoyNeiman to paint a mural of Big Red.A friend walked in while he was standing in front of hisunfinished work, hands resting on his hips.Then he stepped forward, with one stroke added a white lineacross the canvas the rail and the painting came alive.Advice is plentiful at the track, but the great ones, horses orjockeys or trainers, go their own way.GLEN SPEY, N.Y.
In this tiny hamlet where about a quarter ofthe residents are elderly Ukrainians, the few people who knewDmytro Sawczuk were more sympathetic then alarmed about the newsthat the federal government had moved to revoke his citizenshipbecause he apparently lied about his Nazi past when he immigratedto this country 50 years ago.Sawczuk, now 73, said he had been a sawmill worker in Germanyand a farmer in his native Poland, in an area of the countrydivided between the Russians and Germans during World War II.
Butaccording to the Justice Department's office of specialinvestigation, which handles cases of suspected war criminals andcollaborators, Sawczuk had been a guard at a succession of Nazilabor and death camps from 1943 to 1945.Melnyk lives on a street named for a prominent Ukrainian, in aneighborhood where little English is heard.
Down the country roadare two Ukrainian churches, one Orthodox and one Catholic, built tomimic the folk architecture of the wooden churches in theCarpathian Mountains.
There is also a Ukrainian resort here, thescene of an annual summer festival that draws more than 10,000people from Ukrainian strongholds throughout the Northeast.The councilman, who once directed a Ukrainian variety show onpublic-access television, said that 150 Ukrainian families livehere full time and 500 others own properties, either weekendretreats or land they plan to use when they retire.
Among theresidents of Glen Spey is the esteemed Ukrainian poet Wasyl Barka,one of many who helped build the wooden church by hand.Few of the non-Ukrainians here know Sawczuk and even hiscountrymen had only a glancing acquaintance, describing him and hiswife, Elizabeth, as reserved, private people.
The postmaster,Bernard Lehr, said he knew most of the Ukrainians in town, sincethey preferred post office boxes to home delivery and came once aday to claim their mail, often bringing him sweet treats.
ButSawczuk, although he has a box, is a stranger.The councilman often saw Sawczuk in town and inquired about hisfailing health.
Hronsky asked the same question last Sunday whenthe ailing old man came for services at St. Volodymyr's.
To both,Sawczuk gave the same answer: He was going downhill, losing hisbattle with cancer and heart disease.Hronsky saw Dmytro and Elizabeth Sawczuk each Sunday at church.Last January, during the Epiphany, the priest visited the couple tobless their house, a modern, unadorned structure on an unpaved roadoutside of town.During that Epiphany pastoral call, the priest learned that theSawczuks came from Yonkers, as he did.
Mrs. Sawczuk offered to buyHronsky delicacies at a Ukrainian market the next time she droveher husband there for a doctor's appointment.On Thursday, the Sawczuk house was dark and apparently empty.
Noone responded to a knock at the door and windows to the foyer weremasked with paper towels.Retired people dominate in these parts, whether they arenative-born Americans, Ukrainians or German immigrants who settledin an enclave known as Black Forest, for its resemblance to thecountryside of Bavaria.
During the war, locals say, Black Forestwas thought to be a Nazi haven; rumor had it the area was underfederal surveillance.The Ukrainians, like the Germans, have been attracted to thesame landscape, with forests of fir and pine and ice-cold troutstreams.
Melnyk, for one, drove through on the way to New York 50years ago, stumbled into a restaurant where the owner spoke hislanguage, bought a weekend place and knew he had found hisretirement home.Now, the nearest restaurant is a few towns away.
The onlycommerce is a general store and gas station and working people findjobs only in Monticello or Middletown.
In the summer, children'scamps liven things up a bit.
But ask the locals what is mostinteresting about Glen Spey and they will mention a state preservefor the protection of nesting bald eagles.But in the 19th century and the early 20th, the area bustledwith commerce.
An executive at the Singer sewing machine companybuilt a splendid weekend estate in 1870 and turned his 3,000 acresinto an earthly paradise, with artificial lakes, a golf course, achurch and a schoolhouse.
Eventually the executive, GeorgeMcKenzie, built seven lesser estates for his relatives.
One nowhouses the Ukrainian resort.BUFFALO, N.Y. For the first time in their 24-year history, theWashington Capitals are going to the Stanley Cup finals.
Theyearned their berth Thursday night by beating the Buffalo Sabres by3-2 in overtime to clinch the Eastern Conference finals, 4 games to2.Washington's Joe Juneau scored the winning goal at 6 minutes 24seconds of overtime when he charged toward the crease and knocked aloose puck over the goal line after Buffalo goalie Dominic Hasekfailed to cover it.
The play was fashioned by Brian Bellows of theCapitals, who stickhandled around the defense on the left side andfired the first shot against Hasek.
Hasek was sprawled in hiscrease and reaching with the glove on his left hand when Juneauknocked it in.The Capitals will face either Detroit or Dallas in thechampionship round, which will begin Tuesday night in the arena ofthe Western Conference winner.
The defeat ended the brilliantseason of Dominik Hasek, the Buffalo goalie who led the CzechRepublic to the gold medal in the Olympic Games last February.Although Hasek and his teammates are through for the season,Hasek is a finalist for both the Hart and Vezina trophies, given tothe league's most valuable player and its best goalie.
DespiteHasek's great efforts this season, the Capitals are also led by agood goalie: Olaf Kolzig.
Born in South Africa, raised in severalplaces in Canada and an international player for Germany, Kolzighas been, consistently, the best goalie remaining through the firstthree rounds of the tournament.The teams exchanged goals in the second and the third periods.Playing in his first postseason game this spring, Paul Kruse of theSabres scored at 7 minutes 40 seconds of the third period to breaka 1-1 tie.
After a long shot by defenseman Bob Boughner, Kruse andhis linemates charged and created congestion in front of Capitalsgoalie Olaf Kolzig.
The puck may have hit Kruse as it passedthrough.Washington evened it at 2-2 at 14:01 on a power-play goal byPeter Bondra.
Geoff Sanderson was in the penalty box forinterfering with Dale Hunter of the Capitals, a call that wasbitterly protested by the Sabres and their fans.
Bondra, uncoveredin front of the net, knocked the puck past Dominik Hasek as thegoalie tried to scramble back into position, from left to right.After playing a scoreless tie for more than 33 minutes, theteams exchanged even-strength goals within a span of 22 seconds,and the score stood at 1-1 going into the third period.
Scoring forBuffalo was Michael Peca, who slapped the puck past Kolzig at 13:04after a pass from Dixon Ward.
The goal finished a rush that formedat the other end after Washington had maintained pressure for anentire shift.
The Capitals got the goal right back at 13:26 whenEsa Tikkanen, uncovered next to Hasek's crease, turned in a shot byMark Tinordi.The Sabres came into the game with the momentum of a 2-1 victoryin Game 5 in which they were out-played and out-shot by 35-16.
Thedifference in that one was Hasek, who emerged from a mini-slump toperform brilliantly in what may have been his most important andimpressive victory since he lead the Czech Republic to a gold medalin the Winter Olympics in February.The Final Four round, both East and West, has been a goaliestory.
Except for Kolzig the netminding has been erratic and, insome cases, below standard.
In the West, where Detroit holds athree-games-to-two edge over Dallas, Chris Osgood of the Wings andEd Belfour of the Stars have taken turns making major mistakes.He redeemed himself in Game 5 while his young teammates werebeing overwhelmed.
That was not the case in the first periodThursday night.
It ended scoreless, but the Sabres had playedbetter and had a 16-10 edge in shots.
Both coaches started theirmuscle lines: Chris Simon, Hunter and Craig Berube for theCapitals; Rob Ray, Kruse and Wayne Primeau for the Sabres.This matchup could have led to fights in the regular season.
Butin this important a game, it created only a few extra hard hits anda couple of penalties.
Kruse went off for roughing at 5:06.
Huntergot the same minor at 13:56.NEW YORK The search for a head basketball coach at St. John'splodded on Thursday with the school insisting that it has not givenup hope of hiring George Washington Coach Mike Jarvis, but alsomaking a move to secure a backup plan.While St. John's officials have not made an offer or even a callto Jarvis since meeting with him on Monday, an athletic departmentofficial said Thursday that school lawyers were still hopeful thata deal could be worked out.While Jarvis may be the most qualified candidate, he is not theonly one under consideration.
The official said that one of thethree other coaches who were interviewed last week will be broughtin for a second interview.School officials would not confirm which of the three amongSiena's Paul Hewitt, Davidson's Bob McKillop and St. Bonaventure'sJim Baron would be invited back, but according to one Division Icoach, it was believed to be Hewitt.
Hewitt posted a 17-12 recordin his first season as a head coach after five seasons as anassistant at Villanova.Thursday marks four weeks since St. John's informed FranFraschilla of its intention to dismiss him, and the school has yetto make an offer to anyone.
Despite speculation that Jarvis, whomet with Athletic Director Ed Manetta, the executive vicepresident, Robert Crimmins, and the university president, the Rev.Donald Harrington, would be the next coach, Jarvis' lawyer, RobertAdes, said Thursday that there has been no word.Jarvis would command more money than any of the othercandidates, but he also has the best credentials, including fourNational Collegiate Athletic Association tournament appearances ineight seasons at George Washington, more than the other coachescombined.Jarvis earned $600,000 last year and still has four years lefton his contract.
His salary demands would be in the range of$800,000 per year, although Ades insisted that numbers were neverdiscussed with St. John's.According to a person familiar with the situation, St. John'sbelieves it could bring in any of the other three coaches forbetween $300,000 and $350,000 per year, less than it was payingFraschilla, who earned $450,000.The Michelangelo David at the front entrance of Caesar's Palaceattracts hordes every day, but is faux.
So do the white tigers inthe lobby of the Mirage next door and they, to be sure, are real.And so, by the way, are the seven Picassos hanging in the samehotel's top restaurant, Melange.
Tap one with your butter knife andwatch how fast the security goons rush in.The word is out, and it may make you shudder.
Las Vegas, theworld capital of temptation and tat, is branching out.To the familiar sinner's brew of roulette, one-armed bandits andfast-as-you-like wedding ceremonies, add a new, altogetherunexpected ingredient: fine art and never-before-seen antiquities.When it opens in October, the Bellagio, conceived by Steve Wynn,the American gaming tycoon and owner of the Mirage, will be morethan just the latest word in architectural excess, though it hasenough of that.Meant to evoke the villas of northern Italy, it has its ownmini-Lake Como lapping the Strip, quivering cypress trees and 1,100tinkling fountains.In November, the screamingly brash Rio All-Suites and Casino,just off the Strip, will open its doors to the largest exhibitionof Romanov Dynasty treasures ever to leave the PeterhofReserve-Museum in Russia.For six months, Wedgewood dinner services, a Faberge egg and thethrone of Peter the Great will be among more than 1,000 piecesdisplayed in a series of rooms being built in the Casino torecreate, down to the last detail, the salons and galleries of thePeterhof itself.The hard-to-imagine joining of hands between the Rio and thePeterhof was marked Sunday by an equally unlikely ceremony in St.Petersburg.No one, however, is likely to rival Wynn, who has surfaced asthe most important art buyer in the world.
He personally, and theMirage company he heads, have spent almost $300 million on art injust a few months.Among his acquisitions, some of which now decorate the Mirageawaiting the completion of Bellagio, is Edgar Degas's `DancerTaking her Bow' (bought for $12 million), Picasso's `Seated Woman'($1.65 million) and Alberto Giacometti's `Pointing Man' ($7.35million).In March, he paid $50 million for seven contemporary pieces byartists such as Jasper Johns, Willem de Kooning, Lichtenstein andCy Twombly.David Nash, a former Sotheby's auctioneer and now a leadingdealer in New York, sees in Steve Wynn the same appetites displayedby very wealthy men before him.After some of the company's shareholders began to get restlessearlier this year, Wynn sold some of his shares in Mirage and beganto buy on his own account.
He will lease back the pictures he hasbought to the Bellagio for display.And then there is the question: can vulgar Vegas appreciate whatit is getting?
Even to ask it raises the hackles of Alan Feldman, aspokesman for Wynn, who instantly detects elitism and snobbery.Lee Cagley, who is heading the design team recreating thePeterhof at the Rio, believes he sees, meanwhile, a broad maturingboth of the city and of the punters coming to play in it.Probably, though, only a tiny fraction of the punters willnotice the new rarification of the desert air.Andrew, a waiter at Melange, calculates that the Picassos insidego completely unnoticed by about half of the diners who come in.And usually he does not disturb their ignorance.It's probably just as well, given how many of today'swell-heeled sportsmen trample all over propriety.
But all decencyis not lost.
John Elway has spent the past two decades proving it'spossible to nimbly sidestep the cracks in the gold-paved road thatswallow up many a superstar athlete.On Thursday the Denver Broncos quarterback retraced hisfootsteps all the way back to his beginnings.
The football field atGranada Hills High, where Elway engineered the first of his fabledcomebacks, was renamed John Elway Stadium in a ceremony thatcelebrated the goodwill and goodness of the greatest athlete theschool has produced.The assemblage that honored the future Hall of Famer includedteachers who knew Elway when he was a football and baseball prodigyfor the Highlanders in the late 1970s, teammates who were sureElway would forget them once fame and fortune found him, and anentire student body that wasn't yet born (or was barely so) whenElway matriculated with honors in 1979 and moved on to Stanford.In the time it has taken the Granada Hills High Class of 1998 togo from diapers to diplomas, Elway has finished second in theHeisman Trophy balloting, to Herschel Walker in 1982, earned anundergraduate degree in economics, played for the New York Yankees'Single-A team, been named to six Pro Bowls, played in four SuperBowls and engineered 45 come-from-behind game-winning drives.
Themost recent of those drives, in January, produced his first SuperBowl win, over the defending champion Green Bay Packers.He married his college sweetheart, fathered four children andbecame the favorite son of an entire football-crazed state.
But heremained grounded even as his profile soared.
A regular at theHighlanders' annual alumni baseball game, Elway also has kept inclose touch with the friends he had made while playing prepfootball.The feeling apparently was mutual for some 50 former teammateswho honored Elway with their presence Thursday.
He firmlydemonstrated where his priorities stood, turning down DavidLetterman, who wanted him to do a stand-up spot after the ceremonyfor Letterman's late-night telecast, so he could spend the timecatching up with his longtime friends before catching a flight backto Denver with his pint-sized sidekick, his 8-year-old son Jack.Elway was the seventh speaker fitting since that's his jerseynumber and he delivered the verbal equivalent of a long touchdownspiral, his inspirational message connecting with most of hisaudience.
Sadly, there was a section of students in the bleachersto his right who seemed far more interested in hearing themselvestalk than Elway.Those with the good manners and good sense to listen weretreated to Elway's prescription for success: Be humble; seize everyopportunity; persevere and identify what it is you do best and doit to the best of your abilities.A more eloquent earful no senior can hope to get from anycommencement speaker this or any spring.Elway's net worth extends into nine figures, but money isn'twhat makes this man.
Someone driven by the bottom line would haveno reason to place the occasional long-distance call ofencouragement to football players at his old high school, always onhis own dime and time.He wouldn't think of making a long day longer by showing upearly to the gymnasium on the day he was being honored to address agroup of football players with whom he shares only a legacy.Someone driven by the bottom line wouldn't dream of standing ina stuffy gymnasium at 9 in the morning, sleep still in his eyes,patiently and pleasantly signing every last autograph and posingfor every last picture, obliging many of the faculty members whohad just gotten through telling their students not to pester himfor autographs or pictures.And someone driven by the bottom line certainly wouldn't holdthe admiration of two sophomores who are vying to be the next in along line of storied Highlanders quarterbacks.Elway, looking at himself through the same lens in which all histeen-age insecurities once were filtered, doesn't think much haschanged in 20 years, except for his hairline.The Michelangelo David at the front entrance of Caesar's Palaceattracts hordes every day, but is faux.
So do the white tigers inthe lobby of the Mirage next door and they, to be sure, are real.And so, by the way, are the seven Picassos hanging in the samehotel's top restaurant, Melange.
Tap one with your butter knife andwatch how fast the security goons rush in.The word is out, and it may make you shudder.
Las Vegas, theworld capital of temptation and tat, is branching out.To the familiar sinner's brew of roulette, one-armed bandits andfast-as-you-like wedding ceremonies, add a new, altogetherunexpected ingredient: fine art and never-before-seen antiquities.When it opens in October, the Bellagio, conceived by Steve Wynn,the American gaming tycoon and owner of the Mirage, will be morethan just the latest word in architectural excess, though it hasenough of that.Meant to evoke the villas of northern Italy, it has its ownmini-Lake Como lapping the Strip, quivering cypress trees and 1,100tinkling fountains.In November, the screamingly brash Rio All-Suites and Casino,just off the Strip, will open its doors to the largest exhibitionof Romanov Dynasty treasures ever to leave the PeterhofReserve-Museum in Russia.For six months, Wedgewood dinner services, a Faberge egg and thethrone of Peter the Great will be among more than 1,000 piecesdisplayed in a series of rooms being built in the Casino torecreate, down to the last detail, the salons and galleries of thePeterhof itself.The hard-to-imagine joining of hands between the Rio and thePeterhof was marked Sunday by an equally unlikely ceremony in St.Petersburg.No one, however, is likely to rival Wynn, who has surfaced asthe most important art buyer in the world.
He personally, and theMirage company he heads, have spent almost $300 million on art injust a few months.Among his acquisitions, some of which now decorate the Mirageawaiting the completion of Bellagio, is Edgar Degas's `DancerTaking her Bow' (bought for $12 million), Picasso's `Seated Woman'($1.65 million) and Alberto Giacometti's `Pointing Man' ($7.35million).In March, he paid $50 million for seven contemporary pieces byartists such as Jasper Johns, Willem de Kooning, Lichtenstein andCy Twombly.David Nash, a former Sotheby's auctioneer and now a leadingdealer in New York, sees in Steve Wynn the same appetites displayedby very wealthy men before him.After some of the company's shareholders began to get restlessearlier this year, Wynn sold some of his shares in Mirage and beganto buy on his own account.
He will lease back the pictures he hasbought to the Bellagio for display.And then there is the question: can vulgar Vegas appreciate whatit is getting?
Even to ask it raises the hackles of Alan Feldman, aspokesman for Wynn, who instantly detects elitism and snobbery.Lee Cagley, who is heading the design team recreating thePeterhof at the Rio, believes he sees, meanwhile, a broad maturingboth of the city and of the punters coming to play in it.Probably, though, only a tiny fraction of the punters willnotice the new rarification of the desert air.Andrew, a waiter at Melange, calculates that the Picassos insidego completely unnoticed by about half of the diners who come in.And usually he does not disturb their ignorance.NEW YORK Deepening the dissension at the Taxi and LimousineCommission over Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's strict new taxi rules, twocommission members filed affidavits Thursday supporting a suit byfleet owners against the commission and the mayor.The suit itself challenges only a rule authorizing liveries topick up street fares during taxi strikes.
The commissioners,Alberto Torres and Elias Arout, swore that the rule they approved at a May 13 meeting that itself may have been in violation of thestate's open-meeting law was far narrower than the one the citysays was approved.But the affidavits by sitting commissioners against their ownagency add considerably to the disarray surrounding the mayor'sattempts to win approval for his 17-point package of new safetyrules, two of which have yet to be voted on.
And the commissioners'statements parallel comments they have made questioning thelegality of another closed-door commission meeting, held justbefore the vote on the bulk of the mayor's rules.This week, more than half of the eight commission members saidthey were having second thoughts about one rule they approved,making it much easier to suspend cabbies' licenses.
These commentsmay be significant, because five votes are needed to pass, amend orrescind any rules.
The commissioners have not yet voted on ruleslowering the threshold for license suspensions and requiring allyellow cab owners to post a $100,000 insurance bond.The affidavits and the lawsuit take issue with a rule that wasenacted the day the city's cabbies stayed home to protest themayor's proposals.
The rule allows the taxi commission to authorizecar services and commuter vans to pick up passengers who hail themin the street during work stoppages by yellow cabs.The group filing the suits, the Metropolitan Taxicab Board ofTrade, represents the owners of 2,000 yellow cabs.
The group saysthat actions by the taxi commission and the Giuliani administrationhave been rife with secrecy and impropriety.To begin with, the group's lawyers say, the May 13 meeting,which was never announced publicly, was in violation of theopen-meetings law, which requires that all meetings of publicbodies be announced as far in advance as practical and made open tothe public.But beyond that, Arout and Torres said in their affidavits, therule approved by the commission allows liveries only to take peopleto and from the airports, and only on the day of the meeting.
Twoother commissioners have given similar accounts of what took placeat the meeting.There is no way to verify what actually took place.
The citysaid in court papers filed Thursday that there were no minutestaken at the meeting, which is also in conflict with theopen-meetings act.
The livery cab rule itself was not drafted untilthe day after the meeting.
And the commission would not sayThursday which members had voted for the rule.Arout said Thursday that he never would have voted for a lawallowing liveries to compete with medallion cabs.
While he said hesympathized with the complaints from both the yellow-cab and liveryindustries about the onerousness of the mayor's rules, he said hefiled his affidavit simply to set the record straight.Torres has said he voiced doubts to the commission's lawyer,Matthew Daus, as to whether the meeting and the vote were legal,but that Daus assured him they were.Gene Russianoff, senior attorney for the New York PublicInterest Research Group, said that it was highly unusual formembers of government agencies to file affidavits challenging theirown rules.Freeman said that taken together with an hourlong closed-doormeeting on May 28 just before the panel approved 15 of the 17points of Giuliani's plan, the commission's behavior represented adisturbing pattern.WASHINGTON They call them the Righteous Brothers.
JamesDobson, Gary Bauer and John Ashcroft are the vanguard of a newconservative Christian movement that is marching on Washington.Social conservatives feel that the Republican Party has takenthem for granted, led them down the garden path and given nothingback in return.They want an end to abortion, gay rights and gun control, andtheir demands are causing uproar in the party as America gears upfor elections.Dobson, 62, is a broadcaster based in Colorado Springs, Colo.Bauer, 51, a former Reagan Administration official, heads theFamily Research Council.
Ashcroft, 56, is a senator from Missouri.They are the heirs to a tradition of religious conservatism inAmerica that helped keep Ronald Reagan in office for eight years.But they feel that the party Reagan included scorned them,refusing to adopt their key demands, and that the Republicanparty's candidate in the 1996 Presidential race, Robert Dole,betrayed the cause.It intersects with the political universe when candidates arebeing nominated, and small groups of highly motivated individualscan be very influential.The Righteous Brothers have money, and they have an audience.Bauer's Political Action Committee, the Campaign for WorkingFamilies, has raised $3.7 million in contributions in a year.Nearly 6 million people listen to Dobson's radio show every day;millions more have bought his books.But what has made them important is, in some ways, the weaknessof the conservative Christian leadership.
Pat Robertson, its starin the 1980s, has been in eclipse for years.
His ChristianCoalition, once the moving force behind the religious right, lostinfluence and became regarded by many as too willing to compromise.Dobson and his Focus on the Family have moved into the vacuum,with a brisk, family-oriented, authoritarian moralism.He first made his name with the charmingly-titled Dare toDiscipline, a child-rearing guide for the tough of mind and hard ofhand.
And it is discipline which he wants to bring back to theRepublican Party: the smack of firm government.At a series of bad-tempered meetings earlier this year, Dobsonpublicly threatened to pull away from the Republican Partyaltogether unless it started adopting his agenda.The Republicans have had to listen: since his demarche, thequixotic party leader in the House of Representatives, NewtGingrich, has veered towards the trio's positions and taken a muchharder stand on morality questions.Influence behind the scenes is not enough, however: Bauer andAshcroft have both started to sound out the prospects of apresidential candidacy in 2000.Senator Ashcroft, with plenty of on-the-stump experience, ismore likely, and could be one of three or four Republicans with aserious shot at the nomination.But his righteous partners are already having a politicalimpact, backing candidates in Republican primaries for this year'sCongressional races with their words and their cash, which in turnhas triggered conflicts among different factions within the party.The economy is booming and President Bill Clinton is as popularas ever, but the Republicans could still have expected a goodshowing in November's elections.The religious right, however, is causing near-civil war in someof their key campaigns.
While the Dobson and Bauer candidates havenot been that successful, they have driven wedges into cracks thatwere already opening up within the Right.Their most notable victory was a primary for a specialCongressional election in California, where their candidate beat amoderate for the Republican nomination, only to be trounced laterby the Democrat.
Ironically, Reagan's home is in the district.The social conservatives in the Republican Party are finding itincreasingly hard to get on with the economic conservatives, andthe historic marriage which Reagan helped to forge between them andthe moderates is on the rocks.Bauer and Dobson in particular are less interested in the freemarket than in morality, and have sparked angry words from theother side.WASHINGTON They call them the Righteous Brothers.
JamesDobson, Gary Bauer and John Ashcroft are the vanguard of a newconservative Christian movement that is marching on Washington.Social conservatives feel that the Republican Party has takenthem for granted, led them down the garden path and given nothingback in return.They want an end to abortion, gay rights and gun control, andtheir demands are causing uproar in the party as America gears upfor elections.Dobson, 62, is a broadcaster based in Colorado Springs, Colo.Bauer, 51, a former Reagan Administration official, heads theFamily Research Council.
Ashcroft, 56, is a senator from Missouri.They are the heirs to a tradition of religious conservatism inAmerica that helped keep Ronald Reagan in office for eight years.But they feel that the party Reagan included scorned them,refusing to adopt their key demands, and that the Republicanparty's candidate in the 1996 Presidential race, Robert Dole,betrayed the cause.It intersects with the political universe when candidates arebeing nominated, and small groups of highly motivated individualscan be very influential.The Righteous Brothers have money, and they have an audience.Bauer's Political Action Committee, the Campaign for WorkingFamilies, has raised $3.7 million in contributions in a year.Nearly 6 million people listen to Dobson's radio show every day;millions more have bought his books.But what has made them important is, in some ways, the weaknessof the conservative Christian leadership.
Pat Robertson, its starin the 1980s, has been in eclipse for years.
His ChristianCoalition, once the moving force behind the religious right, lostinfluence and became regarded by many as too willing to compromise.Dobson and his Focus on the Family have moved into the vacuum,with a brisk, family-oriented, authoritarian moralism.He first made his name with the charmingly-titled Dare toDiscipline, a child-rearing guide for the tough of mind and hard ofhand.
And it is discipline which he wants to bring back to theRepublican Party: the smack of firm government.At a series of bad-tempered meetings earlier this year, Dobsonpublicly threatened to pull away from the Republican Partyaltogether unless it started adopting his agenda.The Republicans have had to listen: since his demarche, thequixotic party leader in the House of Representatives, NewtGingrich, has veered towards the trio's positions and taken a muchharder stand on morality questions.Influence behind the scenes is not enough, however: Bauer andAshcroft have both started to sound out the prospects of apresidential candidacy in 2000.Senator Ashcroft, with plenty of on-the-stump experience, ismore likely, and could be one of three or four Republicans with aserious shot at the nomination.But his righteous partners are already having a politicalimpact, backing candidates in Republican primaries for this year'sCongressional races with their words and their cash, which in turnhas triggered conflicts among different factions within the party.The economy is booming and President Bill Clinton is as popularas ever, but the Republicans could still have expected a goodshowing in November's elections.The religious right, however, is causing near-civil war in someof their key campaigns.
While the Dobson and Bauer candidates havenot been that successful, they have driven wedges into cracks thatwere already opening up within the Right.Their most notable victory was a primary for a specialCongressional election in California, where their candidate beat amoderate for the Republican nomination, only to be trounced laterby the Democrat.
Ironically, Reagan's home is in the district.The social conservatives in the Republican Party are finding itincreasingly hard to get on with the economic conservatives, andthe historic marriage which Reagan helped to forge between them andthe moderates is on the rocks.Bauer and Dobson in particular are less interested in the freemarket than in morality, and have sparked angry words from theother side.
c. 1998, Houston Chronicle PARIS This was the year, Lindsay Davenport promised herself.
Thiswas the year she would get stronger, faster and meaner.
She wouldlose weight and acquire an attitude.No more Miss Nice Girl, Lindsay said, gritting her teeth andsnarling.
She would light a fire in her belly, and shrink same abit.
She would focus her appetite on winning championships, not hernext meal.Davenport botched a grand opportunity in the French Opensemifinals Thursday, although her opponent, Arantxa SanchezVicario, a fast-fading clay-court diva in recent months, knowsCourt Central at Roland Garros as well as anybody on the women'stour.
The tenacious little Spaniard, a two-time winner here, alwayshas been as gritty as the clay under her feet, the antithesis ofMadam Davenport.But Lindsay is improving.
Formerly soft and gawky, and weakmentally, she has at once slimmed down and grown into her 6-3frame.
Through a hellish training regimen and the normal maturingprocess, she has become enough of a force to have risen, albeitquietly, to No.
2 in the world rankings at the age of 21.For now, for at least until the Williams posse reaches fulltennis flower, Davenport can stand tall proudly, literally andfiguratively, as the best American-born player going.
(As of laterThursday afternoon, it became painfully clear who the top Americanplayer, period, is once again.
)Davenport is also the reigning Olympic champion, having beatenSanchez Vicario for the gold medal in Atlanta in 1996.
They nevercan take that away from her.
Nonetheless, she's still too slow andtoo nice, if no longer too, uh, chubby.Sanchez Vicario exploited Davenport's weaknesses on both fronts,winning 6-3, 7-6 (7-5) in a mistake-filled 94-minute match thatfeatured twice as many dreadful moments as delightful ones.
IfMonica Seles' return to the Roland Garros final was a tour deforce, the Sanchez Vicario-Davenport undercard was more of a tourde farce.Had Davenport's match gone on second, though, she might havedrawn inspiration from the whupping Seles put on top-ranked andtop-seeded Martina Hingis.
Seles, whose own post-stabbing battle ofthe bulge has been excruciatingly chronicled, knocked every bit ofswagger from the self-confident countenance of the 17-year-oldSwiss phenom in arguably the most satisfying victory of hertragically split career.Lindsay has endured a lot, to be sure the constant harping onher weight and appearance, plus her parents' hurtful divorce.
Buther travails are almost trivial by comparison to what Seles hasbeen through.
If Seles can regain the level of excellence to whichshe ascended in stomping Hingis, Davenport surely can raise herpersonal standards several notches as well.They're good friends, Monica and Lindsay.
After Thursday, someof the former is bound to rub off on the latter.Lindsay was done in by that unabated flood of errant shots 56unforced errors, according to the stat sheet and her maddeninginability to use her bigger serve to any kind of advantage.
Ifanything, she was better off trying to return, seeing as how herservice breaks of Sanchez Vicario outnumbered her own holds by a7-2 margin.Amazingly, she lost eight of 10 service games, facing a breakpoint in nine of them and trailing in every one.
She would lose 64percent of the points she served.
Even at Roland Garros, where theterre battue is the greatest of equalizers, that's ridiculous.Sanchez Vicario held, winning a game point on which Davenportseemingly swatted at least three clear-cut winners, only to haveArantxa, her short legs churning, chase each of them down.So the Spaniard advances to her sixth Roland Garros final, andLindsay goes home.
Perhaps Wimbledon can be different.
Grass is, intheory, a more suitable surface for her, and for a change, sheneedn't be in a hurry to forget Paris.Not even Steffi Graf.
Now, Hingis might, but she has a ways togo, and she got no closer Thursday, suffering a 6-3, 6-2 throwbackthumping in the French Open semifinals from the born-again Seles.They first met in Zurich, Switzerland, in 1989, Seles andHingis.
The bubbly, disarming teen from Yugoslavia took a picturewith the child who shared her tennis dreams.
Their paths didn'tcross again until Hingis, a sassy 16 with the No.
1 ranking in hercross hairs, humiliated Seles on a tennis court.Seles missed more than two years after Gunther Parche, aderanged German, plunged a knife into her back during thechangeover of a match in Hamburg in April 1993.
And when she didreturn physically, her killer game didn't automatically follow.When it appeared it might, when her body and psyche were almostwell, she would be confronted by the cancer in her father'sstomach.
Karolj Seles died May 14, less than two weeks before theFrench Open.
Seles wasn't sure if she should come to Paris.
Shedidn't hit a ball for 12 days.But in her grief, she decided to play, to honor Karolj's memory.And now, she's in the final, having beaten the top-seeded Hingis ather own game.So Thursday, saddened but in a strange way finally unburdened,Seles was free to be Seles again, the Monica who won three times ina row at Roland Garros from 1990 through 1992, a feat unprecedentedin tennis' modern age.
Or any age since the 1930s.Hingis hadn't met this Seles, not on a tennis court, anyway.
TheSwiss miss didn't know the lady who was taking Hingis' best shotsand returning them with the same accuracy and twice the heat.She had heard about this Seles, to be sure, but she couldn'thave known her.
Hingis tried to put up a brave, happy frontafterward, but she wore a dazed and distant face.Nobody beats Hingis like that.
Nobody.
Except somebody just had.Hingis was, for an afternoon, a little kid again, being spanked byan elder.Was she surprised by the fearless, unmitigated fury of thetwo-fisted, single-minded, way-it-used-to-be Seles attack?Could be.
Her opponent in Saturday's final, fourth seed ArantxaSanchez Vicario, won their most recent meeting in the ChaseChampionships last fall, but Seles had taken 14 of the previous 15.Sanchez Vicario, having defeated second-seeded Lindsay Davenport6-3, 7-6 (7-5) in their semifinal, understands only too well whatshe's in for.It remains the only Grand Slam she hasn't won, although shedoesn't turn 18 until late September.
She was beaten in the FrenchOpen final a year ago by fellow teen Iva Majoli, but that defeatfollowed a long rehabilitation from arthroscopic knee surgerynecessitated by a fall from a horse.
She was fine this day.Just overmatched.
The one time Hingis made a move, breaking tostart the second set, Seles promptly broke back at 15-40, forcingHingis into an unusually timid net error.Lots of them.
Except Seles, 24, is a force to be reckoned with,and that changes the coronation equation.The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for rerunson AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPIDataNews.ALBANIA-KOSOVO (Padesh, Albania) President Slobodan Milosevicof Yugoslavia has unleashed the largest military operation in theBalkans since the end of the war in Bosnia, driving thousands ofethnic Albanians from the border area with Albania and reducingtheir villages to rubble.
By Chris Hedges.SCI-NEUTRINOS (Kamiokande, Japan) In a finding with immenseimplications for physics and cosmology, a team of American,Japanese and other physicists running an underground, underwaterlaboratory here announced Thursday that they have evidence that theneutrino, a subatomic particle, has mass.
By Malcolm W. Browne.TWA-CRASH-DISPOSAL (Washington) National Transportation SafetyBoard this weekend begins the tough job of disposing of personaleffects of passengers from the TWA 800 crash, including teddybears, hairpieces and blue jeans.
By Matthew L. Wald.OLDER-WOMEN-DRUGS (Undated) Abuse of alcohol and prescriptiondrugs by older women is a hidden epidemic costing the country $30billion a year in health care, according to a major study releasedo Thursday and separate interviews with women as old as 88 yearswho became addicted in California, Minnesota, Florida and New York.By Christopher S. Wren.NY-NAZI-SUSPECT (Glen Spey, N.Y.) In this tiny hamlet whereabout a quarter of the residents are elderly Ukrainians, the fewpeople who knew Dmytro Sawczuk were more sympathetic then alarmedabout the news that the federal government had moved to revoke hiscitizenship because he apparently lied about his Nazi past when heimmigrated to this country 50 years ago.
By Jane Gross.SENATE-BANKING (Undated) The proposal to rewrite the bankinglaws is finally moving to the Senate.
Although its chances ofapproval are still slim, they are increasing, as a group of WallStreet's top executives found during a recent trip to Washington.By Leslie Wayne.TECH-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Even as more and more corporatemanagers warned investors that their second-quarter results werelooking grim, investors piled into the stock market.
And they piledmost heavily into those companies most vulnerable to near-termearnings disappointment the technology group.
By GretchenMorgenson.RAC-ARATON-COLUMN (New York) Sports of The Times on theBelmont Stakes and Real Quiet, and how he'll be viewed if he winsthe Triple Crown.
By Harvey Araton.BROADWAY-TONYS (New York) The 1997-1998 Broadway season comesto an official close on Sunday night when the 52d annual TonyAwards honoring artistic and technical achievement on the Broadwaystage are handed out during a live television broadcast at RadioCity Music Hall with Rosie O'Donnell presiding.
By Rick Lyman.PA-SCHUYLKILL-OHARA (Pottsville, Pa.) For a fleeting moment,you are Julian English and the road is yours, roaring in a sleekCaddie through scenic highways of fact and fiction, past coal patchtaverns and slatty wood houses, gin cocktail parties and countryclubs vibrating to the tunes of Tommy Lake's Royal Collegians.
Theterrain is Schuylkill County, the shovel-shaped anthracite coalregion of eastern Pennsylvania, which is barely disguised in theplentiful short stories and novels of John O'Hara.He has piercing brown eyes that could make her forget JeffGordon and a smile that would give a milk mustache an R rating.He has an A.J.
Foyt kind of swagger and driving ability thattranscends debates about open wheels and fenders.He has a 1997 Indy Racing League championship for Team Menardtucked under his arm, and he's walking away from it all.He was its matinee idol, the young American driver that theleague, in its third season, wanted to promote and nurture andshowcase in its centerpiece race, the Indianapolis 500.Imagine Gordon defecting to the Championship Auto Racing Teamsseries virtually ripping the sweet heart out of NASCAR.
That'swhat Stewart's departure from this fledgling league is beingcompared with, but it's not entirely an honest comparison.After winning 1995 U.S. Auto Club titles in sprint, midget andSilver Crown divisions, Stewart signed a three-year deal with HarryRanier's NASCAR Busch Grand National team that November.
The nextJanuary, his agent negotiated a deal with John Menard to giveStewart a ride in the Indy Racing League.He hasn't so much outgrown the league as he was spirited awayfrom it: Joe Gibbs bought Ranier's team and agreed to allow Stewartto focus on IRL this year while racing BGN on off-weekends with theintent of moving him up to Winston Cup next season.Buhl and teammate J.J. Yeley, 21, don't see Stewart's departureas the death knell for the league pointing to up-and-comers likeFoyt-protege Billy Boat.
Nor do they see it as a permanentabandonment.After finishing second last season at Indianapolis, engineproblems handed Stewart a last-place finish two weeks ago.
Hopingto emulate his idol, Foyt, Stewart longs to win Winston Cup'sDaytona 500 and the IRL's Indy 500 before his career is through.Gibbs has consented to letting him drive in the Indy 500.Dedicated to Winston Cup's 33-date calendar, Stewart's swingingschedule of racing two and three nights a week with midget cars,BGN or IRL will stop, Gibbs has said, somewhat to Stewart'schagrin.As he says this, his name is atop the IRL points standings, andyesterday at Texas Motor Speedway, Stewart pushed his neon yellowGlidden Menards Special to a top speed of 223 mph in practice.He smiles a smile that could sell a thousand cans of paint orboxes of cereal.
This chapter's not over.
There's work to be donethis weekend.The publicity has become white-hot and largely fawning, the kindthat a certain giant lizard couldn't buy with millions of dollarsof advertising earlier this year.Reviewers have been ecstatic about the tale of Truman Burbank,and Carrey's elastic mug has been on the covers of Time andEntertainment Weekly magazines just in time to generate even moreinterest.The publicity has become white-hot and largely fawning, the kindthat a certain giant lizard couldn't buy with millions of dollarsof advertising earlier this year.Reviewers have been ecstatic about the tale of Truman Burbank,and Carrey's elastic mug has been on the covers of Time andEntertainment Weekly magazines just in time to generate even moreinterest.LOS ANGELES -- Ronald Perelman, one of America's richest men,completed his $600 million takeover of Panavision, the world leaderin supplying cameras to the motion-picture industry.The deal, first announced in December, was approved Thursday ata special shareholders meeting in New York City and leaves Perelmanwith a 72 percent holding in Panavision -- the same level held byventure-fund manager Warburg Pincus Capital, which had ownedPanavision for a decade.Perelman has a fortune worth an estimated $6.5 billion andcontrols Revlon, Consolidated Cigar, California Federal Bank andColeman.
He has promised to increase Panavision's sales and retainsenior management, but has given no details yet.The company, which employs 300 people at its suburban WoodlandHills headquarters and 800 overall, earned $3.5 million on revenuesof $43.2 million in the first quarter.
It produces about 80 camerasannually, leasing them to studios and producers through rentalagents, and dwarfs rivals Arriflex and Moviecam with a market shareestimated at 90 percent.Perelman's deal provided no premium to shareholders, but offereda debt recapitalization and other investments worth $150 million.The transaction cut ownership of publicly held shares to 10 percentfrom 19.5 percent, with Warburg and its managers owning theremaining 18 percent.LOS ANGELES A frustrating and disappointing month inIndianapolis came to a bitter end for Chatsworth High product MikeGroff this week.After struggling to qualify and then finishing 15th in theIndianapolis 500 17 laps behind winner Eddie Cheever Jr. Groffwas replaced as driver of the Jonathan Byrd/Cunningham Racing No.10G Force Aurora, a car he felt was badly outclassed at Indy.Groff said he felt the owners and crew chief blamed him for hiscar's poor performance even though for the first few races of 1997,he had the team in first place in IRL season points.
But the realproblem, Groff said, was with the equipment.In the race, Groff said his car's top speed was around 205 mph,while other drivers were hitting the 220s and lapping himrepeatedly.Groff said the problem was mechanical and the result of usingoutmoded equipment as the owners tried to keep costs down.So instead of putting money into making the car faster, Grofffeels, his team chose to blame the driver.Groff several times told Byrd there was one way to find out ifhe was the problem: Put another driver in the car.
Twice beforeByrd took him up on the offer, bringing an outsider for testing.This time, he's brought in Paul permanently.That's OK with Groff, who is tied for 11th with Billy Boat inseason points with 56.The Milwaukee race was Shafer's first with MCI after signing onwith it earlier this spring as a part-time driver.Tach it up: For 25 years, Lions Drag Strip roared on weekendswith sounds of souped up engines.
Those who remember those daysfondly are holding a reunion this weekend at the Carson CommunityCenter, 3 Civic Plaza Drive, in Carson.A variety of vintage cars and other memorabilia from the strip,which closed in 1972, will be displayed.
Also on hand will be NHRAfunny car driver Gary Densham.End of the string: Granada Hills' M.K.
Kanke couldn't overcome apoor starting position and finished sixth at Saturday's NASCARFeatherlite Southwest Tour Colorado 125.
His winning streak thuswas stopped at two.Baja-bound: More than 200 off-road racers are expected inEnsenada, Mexico, this weekend to run the SCORE Baja 500 DesertRace.
One of the marquee events of the SCORE season, the race drawsthe top names in off-road racing, including nine-time overallchampion Ivan Stewart.Drivers will run in 23 classes, 16 for cars and trucks, sevenfor motorcycles and all-terrain vehicles.Mighty midgets: Simi Valley's Rick Hendrix won a 30-lap showdownat Tucson Raceway Park last weekend and continues to lead the USACWestern States Midget standings.
Simi Valley neighbor Alex Harriscontinued his domination of the three-quarter midget ranks, winningat Perris Auto Speedway.Nuts and bolts: In just three years, Italy's Alex Zanardi hasbecome the dominant figure in CART racing.
In 38 starts he has 10poles and 10 victories.
In his past 13 races, he has been in thetop three 11 times....
The IRL will run twice at Texas MotorSpeedway this year.
The two events, Saturday night's True Value 500and Sept. 20's Longhorn 500, have been dubbed the Texas Two-StepChampionship with an extra $100,000 going to the driver with themost combined points.TAKAYAMA, Japan In what colleagues hailed as a historiclandmark, 120 physicists from 23 research institutions in Japan andthe United States announced on Friday that they had found theexistence of mass in a notoriously elusive subatomic particlecalled the neutrino.The neutrino, a particle that carries no electric charge, is solight that it was assumed for many years to have no mass at all.After Friday's announcement, cosmologists will have to confront thepossibility that much of the mass of the universe is in the form ofneutrinos.
The discovery will also compel scientists to revise ahighly successful theory of the composition of matter known as theStandard Model.Word of the discovery had drawn some 300 physicists here todiscuss neutrino research.
Among other things, they said, thefinding of neutrino mass might affect theories about the formationand evolution of galaxies and the ultimate fate of the universe.
Ifneutrinos have sufficient mass, their presence throughout theuniverse would increase the overall mass of the universe, possiblyslowing its present expansion.Others said the newly detected but as yet unmeasured mass of theneutrino must be too small to cause cosmological effects.
Butwhatever the case, there was general agreement here that thediscovery will have far-reaching consequences for the investigationof the nature of matter.Speaking for the collaboration of scientists who discovered theexistence of neutrino mass using a huge underground detector calledSuper-Kamiokande, Dr. Takaaki Kajita of the Institute for CosmicRay Research of Tokyo University said that all explanations for thedata collected by the detector except the existence of neutrinomass had been essentially ruled out.But because the elusive particles cannot be seen, the evidencethat they have mass is indirect.Study of the neutrino particle has been glacially slow since itsexistence was hypothesized in 1931 by the Austrian physicistWolfgang Pauli as a way to explain the mysterious loss of energy incertain nuclear reactions.
The particle was finally discovered in1956 by two physicists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr.Frederick Reines (who was awarded a Nobel Prize for the discovery)and the late Dr. Clyde Cowan.But understanding of the particle since then has been acquiredpainfully slowly, because neutrinos have no electric charge andrarely interact with any kind of matter.
A neutrino so rarelycollides with an atom of ordinary matter that a typical neutrinocan easily penetrate a one-light-year thickness of lead some sixtrillion miles without hindrance.As the writer John Updike put it in a poem he wrote in 1960:But once in a great while, a neutrino does hit an atom and theresulting blast of nuclear debris supplies clues about the neutrinoitself.
The debris generally includes many particles that can racethrough water, mineral oil or even ice, sending out shock waves ofblue light.
This light, called Cherenkov radiation, can be detectedby sensitive light sensors and measured.During the past few decades, scientists have learned that matteris made up of three distinct flavors or types.
This means thatthere are three flavors of neutrinos the electron neutrinoassociated with the electron, the muon neutrinos, associated withthe muon particle, which is a kind of fat electron, and the tauneutrino, associated with the tau particle, an even fatter relativeof the electron.The Super-Kamiokande detector was built two years ago as a jointJapanese-American experiment.
It is essentially a water tank thesize of a large cathedral installed in a deep zinc mine one mileinside a mountain 30 miles north of here.
When neutrinos slicethrough the tank, one of them occasionally makes its presence knownby colliding with an atom, which sends blue light through the waterto an array of detectors.The enormous volume of water in the detector increased thelikelihood of neutrino impacts to the point at which the discoveryof neutrino mass became possible.Physicists knew that different flavors of neutrinos constantlyarrive from the upper atmosphere and they have calculated that theratio between muon neutrinos and other flavors must have a certainvalue.
But over the years detectors found only about half the muonneutrino predicted by theory.The apparent shortage of muon neutrinos was explained by therecent observations that led to Friday's announcement.
Thephysicists found that when neutrinos come from the sky directlyover the Super Kamiokande detector a relatively short distance the proportion of muon neutrinos among them was higher than amongthe neutrinos coming up from beneath the detector after havingpassed through the Earth.The scientists reasoned that by traveling through the entireEarth these neutrinos had had time to oscillate, probably manytimes, between muon neutrinos and some other type, especially thetau neutrino, and this accounts for the deficit seen in muonneutrinos.
(The tau neutrino has not yet been directly detected butit must exist to make observations consistent.
)A related problem has to do with neutrinos produced by thefusion process in the sun.
This process, which merges the nuclei ofhydrogen atoms to form helium nuclei and energy, producesneutrinos.
Astrophysicists believe they understand the mechanism incomplete detail.The trouble is that all the best detectors ever built find farfewer neutrinos than should be present according to understandingof the fusion reaction.Scientists believe the anomaly can be explained by theoscillation of detectable solar neutrinos into types that cannot bedetected by existing instruments.
But no one has proven thisexplanation.The leader of the collaboration's University of Hawaii Group,for example, Dr. John Learned, has also worked on an underwaterdetection system in the Pacific Ocean off the Hawaiian coast (whichran out of money before completion) and a project at the South Polewhere a neutrino detector had been buried under thousands of feetof ice.Another approach to penetrating the neutrino secrets involvesthe use of particle accelerators capable of producing intense beamsof neutrinos.
In two experiments currently being prepared, one inJapan and the other at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory inIllinois, beams of neutrinos will be directed through the Earthtoward detectors several hundred miles away.
The goal will be toobserve changes the neutrinos undergo in transit, both in numbersand types.
Physicists expect the experiment to confirm theexistence of neutrino oscillations like those seen in theSuper-Kamiokande detector.Although the neutrinos are now known to have some mass, mostphysicists agree that the mass must be very small.
TheSuper-Kamiokande experiments suggest that the difference betweenthe masses of muon neutrinos and other types of neutrinos is onlyabout 0.07 electron volts (a measure of particle mass).
This doesnot yield a value of the masses themselves, only of the differencebetween those of muon neutrinos and other types.Although the mass of the neutrino of any flavor must be small,Totsuka said, it may be several electron-volts, and if so, theoverall gravitational effect on the universe would perhaps besignificant.
It has been estimated that at any given moment, everyteaspoon worth of volume of space throughout the universe containsan average of 300 neutrinos, so their aggregate number isstaggering.Representatives of dozens of neutrino experiments meet onceevery two years to exchange ideas at conferences like the one underway here.
Present are representatives of teams that have installedneutrino detectors on the bottom of Lake Baikal in Siberia, underthe Aegean Sea off the Greek coast, inside the Gran Sasso tunnelunder the Alps, under the ice covering the South Pole, and in manyother places.LOS ANGELES -- For all of its 20-year history, blood productsspecialist HemaCare Corp. has operated in the shadow of theAmerican Red Cross, struggling in the role of David to the RedCross' Goliath.Now, in an apparent effort to even the playing field, HemaCare'sboard of directors has hired a Red Cross insider to serve as chiefexecutive.After a year in which the company saw essentially zero earningson stagnant sales of $11 million, William Nicely, former chiefexecutive for the Red Cross' Southern California blood servicesdivision, was brought in Monday with a mandate to cut costs,improve efficiency and drum up new business.
In the process, theboard hopes, he will help bolster the company's anemic shares.It's a deceptively simple list, Nicely said, and one for whichhe is under the gun to devise a strategy.
HemaCare's board willmeet June 29, and Nicely must make his recommendations then.HemaCare was founded in 1978 to make money at what hadtraditionally been a nonprofit business: the collection of bloodand blood components for resale to Southern California hospitals.By emphasizing its small size relative to the Red Cross, andputting a premium on customer service, HemaCare met with somesuccess, enough at least to go public in 1986.
By 1992 the firm wasgenerating $12.4 million in annual sales.
Earnings were harder tocome by, however, and from 1992 to 1994 the company lost money inevery quarter but one.Part of the problem was a lack of focus.
Over the years,HemaCare dabbled in several money-losing projects, includingresearch on an alternative treatment for HIV infection and theestablishment of a blood services center in St. Louis.Each of the endeavors was subsequently scrapped, leavingHemaCare wiser but poorer, with only the business of collecting anddistributing blood to fall back on.
But a back-to-basics strategybased on those operations may simply not be enough to turn thecompany around now, analysts say.With its high concentration of hospitals, the SouthernCalifornia market has in recent years drawn additional suppliersbeyond HemaCare and the Red Cross, making it far more competitivethan in the early 1990s.A large San Diego blood bank, for example, recently beganpeddling its products in the Greater Los Angeles region after theloss of a major local contract to the Red Cross left it with anoversupply.Officials at the nonprofit Red Cross, meanwhile, say they haveno intention of ceding any more of the $100 million L.A. market tocompetitors.
From an estimated 90 percent-plus market share adecade ago, the Red Cross controls about 75 percent today.
HemaCaresupplies about 10 percent of the market.And because the Red Cross need not make money -- and in fact issupplemented by charitable donations -- some have said it cheats.
Ayear ago, the organization settled out of court a lawsuit HemaCarefiled in 1995 alleging that its blood pricing in Los Angeles andOrange counties violated federal fair-trade laws.
And Nicely saidhis former division did lose money throughout the first half of the1990s.WASHINGTON The director of central intelligence caused a stiron Thursday by refusing to share some information with a Senatecommittee investigating the transfer of satellite technology toChina, prompting Justice Department officials to backtrack andpermit the release of certain information.The dispute began with the testimony of George Tenet, thedirector of central intelligence, who cited a criminal inquiry bythe Justice Department in declining to disclose a document to theSenate panel on its very first day of hearings.Tenet told senators that the department had advised him that therelease of such information could jeopardize its inquiry intowhether a private company illegally passed on sensitive technologyto China.The refusal had threatened to put the Clinton administration andCongress at odds over an inquiry with serious national securityovertones, one to which President Clinton had promised hiscooperation.After much criticism by senators on the committee Thursday, thedepartment lifted its objections to Tenet's disclosure of thedisputed document.
But its spokesman, Bert Brandenburg, said onThursday night that the department still reserved the right toexcise sensitive information from other documents that might tipoff the government's strategy.Sen.
Richard Shelby, R-Ala., who heads the intelligencecommittee, plans to make an issue of the department's reluctance torelease information on Friday when Attorney General Janet Reno andLouis Freeh, director of the FBI, testify before the committee, hisaides said.Earlier on Thursday, Shelby warned the administration to honorits promise to cooperate with the inquiry and not hide behind theJustice Department's investigation.Senior Justice Department officials said on Thursday that Tenetwas initially told not to talk to senators about certaininformation because the disclosure could hamper the federalinvestigation of the satellite company, Loral Space andCommunications of New York.An administration official said on Thursday night that theinformation Tenet refused to discuss was a CIA assessment of theincident that led to the Loral inquiry.
A similar report by thePentagon concluded last year that American national security washarmed by the information passed on to the Chinese.Thursday's three-hour closed hearing with Tenet marked theopening round of months of hearings by several House and Senatecommittees into whether China learned secret information fromAmerican satellites that Beijing then used to aim its nuclearmissiles more accurately.Shelby's committee is leading the investigation in the Senate.The House plans to create a select committee to handle its separateinquiry.A federal grand jury is investigating whether Loral and anothersatellite maker, Hughes Electronics, a Los Angeles division of theGeneral Motors Corp., illegally gave China space expertise thatallowed Beijing to more accurately aim its nuclear missiles.
Loral's chairman and chief executive, Bernard Schwartz, was thelargest personal contributor to the Democratic National Committeelast year.
Schwartz has denied he sought any favors in exchange forhis contributions.While there are many strands to the various Congressionalinquiries, federal and congressional investigators are focusing onthe events following the Feb. 15, 1996, explosion seconds after aChinese rocket carrying a $200 million Loral satellite waslaunched.After the explosion, China asked the two American companies toconduct an independent review of the accident.
The team was led byLoral, but included experts from Hughes.
Administration officials say the American experts oversteppedthe boundaries of what they could tell the Chinese during thereview.
The State Department asked the Defense Technology SecurityAdministration in the Pentagon to investigate.In mid-May 1997, the Pentagon agency's report, based onintelligence and rocket experts, found that American security hadbeen harmed.
Two weeks later, the U.S. Customs Service began aninvestigation that became the basis for the government's criminalinquiry.The first 14 of the Local Social Mediation Agents, or ALMS, asthey are called, began patrolling the network this week after afour-week training course just in time for next week's start ofthe World Cup soccer tournament.If soccer brings with it hooliganism, as many fear, the agents,men and women around the age of 20, will be in the front line.A spokesman for the transit authority, the RATP, said the agentshad a dissuasive and mediating role rather than a repressive one.If trouble breaks out, the unidentified agents can call on thepolice for help.
Their only weapon is the power of persuasion.The volunteer Guardian Angels, who came to Paris in ashort-lived experiment a few years ago, are seen by many asunlawful vigilantes although they claimed to have reduced crime inNew York.The Paris agents on the other hand will carry an officialwarrant jointly issued by the RATP and the Paris police, and willwork in close collaboration with the police.They have been given instruction in public liberty, principlesof law and psychological training in dealing with problems rangingfrom drunkenness to graffiti spraying.
The RATP said they were alsoexpected to lend a helping hand to people who are lost or indifficulty.Polls show that a perceived lack of security is foremost amongthe concerns of passengers.
Metro employees have gone on strikeseveral times in recent months because of attacks againstco-workers, and the RATP spends tens of millions of francs cleaningup trains defaced by vandals.The agents are being hired under a government plan to createjobs for young people, under which the government will pay up to 80percent of their wages.The RATP says it hopes to have 50 agents on duty by the end ofJune, and 250 within three years.The Metro network already employs specialized security officialsand dog-handlers in addition to transit policemen a total ofabout 1,000 men and women.The mission of the young agents, who wear black uniforms, ismore specifically targeted at other young people.
(To publish this 400-word article from the International HeraldTribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive fromNew York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE inKansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
However, not even a state-of-the-art drainage system can make itdry any faster after a thunderstorm.Truck qualifying for tonight's Pronto Auto Parts 400K wasdelayed 31/2 hours when a storm front dumped half an inch of rainon the track in the evening.The revised schedule has the IRL cars practicing in two groupsfrom 1 to 1:30 p.m and 1:30 to 2 p.m.
Qualifying under abest-of-two-laps format is scheduled for 3 p.m.Reigning Indy 500 champion Eddie Cheever Jr. said he welcomedthe delay, because it gave his team an extra practice session.It began to rain at TMS about 7:10 p.m., and rained for about ahalf-hour.
Drying crews got on the track about 8 p.m., and it tookmore than two hours to get the track dry.Before the rains came, there seemed to be plenty of evidencethat the track is faster since it was revamped.Tony Stewart turned a hot lap of 223.224 in his Indy car, thefastest ever at the speedway.
The fast lap during the True Value500k last year was 218.094 by Stewart.Truck driver Bob Keselowski turned a hot lap of 177.597 in hisDodge during the second practice session.
Mike Bliss won the polelast year with a lap of 175.667.
The first 14 of the Local Social Mediation Agents, or ALMS, asthey are called, began patrolling the network this week after afour-week training course just in time for next week's start ofthe World Cup soccer tournament.If soccer brings with it hooliganism, as many fear, the agents,men and women around the age of 20, will be in the front line.A spokesman for the transit authority, the RATP, said the agentshad a dissuasive and mediating role rather than a repressive one.If trouble breaks out, the unidentified agents can call on thepolice for help.
Their only weapon is the power of persuasion.The volunteer Guardian Angels, who came to Paris in ashort-lived experiment a few years ago, are seen by many asunlawful vigilantes although they claimed to have reduced crime inNew York.The Paris agents on the other hand will carry an officialwarrant jointly issued by the RATP and the Paris police, and willwork in close collaboration with the police.They have been given instruction in public liberty, principlesof law and psychological training in dealing with problems rangingfrom drunkenness to graffiti spraying.
The RATP said they were alsoexpected to lend a helping hand to people who are lost or indifficulty.Polls show that a perceived lack of security is foremost amongthe concerns of passengers.
Metro employees have gone on strikeseveral times in recent months because of attacks againstco-workers, and the RATP spends tens of millions of francs cleaningup trains defaced by vandals.The agents are being hired under a government plan to createjobs for young people, under which the government will pay up to 80percent of their wages.The RATP says it hopes to have 50 agents on duty by the end ofJune, and 250 within three years.The Metro network already employs specialized security officialsand dog-handlers in addition to transit policemen a total ofabout 1,000 men and women.The mission of the young agents, who wear black uniforms, ismore specifically targeted at other young people.
(To publish this 400-word article from the International HeraldTribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive fromNew York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE inKansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosionby the autumn.
In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occurin midsummer.
In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large numberof Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work ofU.S.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with BenjaminNetanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcadepast the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's futuremust be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and aninsistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how muchoccupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning withever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted oncontrolling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which thissubterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to setthe stage for the battle to come.Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim.
When in1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugeessheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, theyclaimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feetfrom the U.N. barracks.If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implicationsare appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.compound, something it has hitherto always denied.What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeliborder if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon?
Israeliofficers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in theWest Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese ashostages in return for information about the fate of missingIsraeli servicemen.
Of these 22, one has now been held for 12years.Could anything be further from the truth?
Subconsciously,perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of thenightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations fromtheir ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; beforebombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectivelyassured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument withthem personally.It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arabworld.
Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree withNetanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from theIsraeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is anArab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracyIsrael always claims to be.In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for anotherconflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people arealready absolved.In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and hisgovernment are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo isdead, and that the Arabs will be blamed.
They can be sure of thesecond.
(To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosionby the autumn.
In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occurin midsummer.
In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large numberof Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work ofU.S.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with BenjaminNetanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcadepast the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's futuremust be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and aninsistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how muchoccupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning withever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted oncontrolling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which thissubterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to setthe stage for the battle to come.Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim.
When in1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugeessheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, theyclaimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feetfrom the U.N. barracks.If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implicationsare appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.compound, something it has hitherto always denied.What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeliborder if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon?
Israeliofficers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in theWest Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese ashostages in return for information about the fate of missingIsraeli servicemen.
Of these 22, one has now been held for 12years.Could anything be further from the truth?
Subconsciously,perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of thenightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations fromtheir ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; beforebombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectivelyassured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument withthem personally.It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arabworld.
Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree withNetanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from theIsraeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is anArab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracyIsrael always claims to be.In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for anotherconflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people arealready absolved.In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and hisgovernment are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo isdead, and that the Arabs will be blamed.
They can be sure of thesecond.
(To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
FORT WORTH, Texas Texas Motor Speedway fostered high speedsand even higher praise from NASCAR Craftsman Truck and Indy RacingLeague drivers yesterday in its first test since a $2 millionrenovation that included a newly paved track and a reconstructionof troubling Turn 4.The only blemish on yesterday's events may have been the rainthat moved through the area about 7:30 p.m. and delayed qualifyingfor tonight's NASCAR Craftsman Truck Pronto Auto Parts 400K racefor more than three hours and postponed the qualifying round fortomorrow's Indy Racing League True Value 500K competition untiltoday.Renovations began less than three weeks after the NASCAR WinstonCup Texas 500 on April 5, which was marked by a major crash in Turn1 and drivers' complaints about the transition at the exit of Turn4 and entrance into Turn 1.Dennis Huth, NASCAR vice president for administration, saidofficials at the speedway will continue to listen as drivers comeoff the track and give reviews throughout the weekend.Less than a half-hour into yesterday's NASCAR Craftsman TruckSeries opening practice, Barfield and his No.
35 Ortho Chevroletspun going into Turn 2.
But he put all the blame for the crash onhimself.But after their first practice session for tonight's Pronto AutoParts 400K, truck drivers followed Barfield in extolling thetrack's new surface.
Later yesterday afternoon, drivers of thefaster Indy Racing League cars, which race in tomorrow's True Value500, also praised the track.A new drainage system was installed after water seeped throughthe pavement in Turn 1 during Texas 500 qualifying on April 3,forcing postponement of the session until the next day.NASCAR Craftsman Truck series defending champion Jack Sprague,who pushed his truck to 176.062 mph by the second practice session,said Texas Motor Speedway stands up to some of the more populartracks on the circuit.BEIRUT In Jordan and Egypt, they are predicting an explosionby the autumn.
In Lebanon, the betting is the detonation will occurin midsummer.
In Jerusalem, the Palestinians and a large numberof Israelis fear the worst on an almost hourly basis.The latest provocation against the Arabs has been the work ofU.S.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose flirtation with BenjaminNetanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has included a motorcadepast the proposed site of an American embassy in Jerusalem anathema to any peacemaker who believes that Jerusalem's futuremust be decided under the terms of the Oslo agreement and aninsistence that Israel, and only Israel, can decide how muchoccupied land should be returned to the Palestinians.This, of course, is news to the Europeans who are warning withever more desperation that the Middle East is approaching disaster.This fantasy all the odder since Israel itself insisted oncontrolling the Palestine-Egyptian border beneath which thissubterranean burrowing has supposedly taken place helps to setthe stage for the battle to come.Even history is being rewritten with this apparent aim.
When in1996, Israeli artillerymen slaughtered 106 Lebanese refugeessheltering in a U.N. position at Qana in southern Lebanon, theyclaimed they were shooting at Hezbollah gunmen at least 600 feetfrom the U.N. barracks.If Cohen actually meant what he said, however, the implicationsare appalling that Israel deliberately fired at the U.N.compound, something it has hitherto always denied.What will happen to the U.N. soldiers north of the Israeliborder if the expected conflict spreads to Lebanon?
Israeliofficers involved in the end-of-peace computer projection in theWest Bank say that there would be massive bloodshed, with hundreds perhaps thousands dead.Nor about Israel's now overt decision to hold 22 Lebanese ashostages in return for information about the fate of missingIsraeli servicemen.
Of these 22, one has now been held for 12years.Could anything be further from the truth?
Subconsciously,perhaps, the world is beginning to understand the nature of thenightmare scenario confronting the Middle East.Hitherto, it has been a habit to distance Arab populations fromtheir ruthless dictators when attacking Arab countries; beforebombing their cities, Presidents Reagan and Bush respectivelyassured Libyans and Iraqis that Washington had no argument withthem personally.It was an acknowledgement of the lack of democracy in the Arabworld.
Now, oddly, this same practice is being applied to Israel.We are repeatedly told how many Israelis disagree withNetanyahu, how many American Jews dissociate themselves from theIsraeli government's policies as if the Netanyahu cabinet is anArab-style dictatorship rather than the much-trumpeted democracyIsrael always claims to be.In this way, the West, too, may be preparing itself for anotherconflict in the Middle East, one from which the Israeli people arealready absolved.In the Arab world, the fear is simpler: that Netanyahu and hisgovernment are trying to provoke a war that will prove Oslo isdead, and that the Arabs will be blamed.
They can be sure of thesecond.
(To publish this provocative 1,125-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
Paul has succeeded Mike Groff as driver of Jonathan Byrd's No.10 Dallara//Aurora, beginning with tomorrow night's True Value500k.
For a driver who exited the Indianapolis 500 with his PepBoys Indy Racing League future in limbo, the past three days havebeen like winning the lottery.
In three states.Paul finished seventh in the 82nd Indy 500 on May 24, drivingfor Team Pelfrey, a ride he picked up after Danny Ongais wasinjured in a practice crash.
Paul drove the first two races of 1998 and the previous two IRL seasons with PDM Racing.
He finished10th at Orlando, Fla., and 19th at Phoenix this year before hisstirring performance at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where heled 39 laps.
Only race-winner Eddie Cheever Jr. led more laps with76.Byrd's team, which is sponsored by VisionAire-Bryant Heating Cooling, is one of the IRL's originals.
But it has beenovershadowed by the recent successes enjoyed by Team Menard,Treadway Racing and A.J.
Foyt Racing.Byrd said Paul's performance at Indy was not the sole reason hegot the job.
At age 22, Paul became the youngest champion in thehistory of the International Motor Sports Association GT series in1982 the year he also won the 24 Hours of Daytona and Sebring 12Hours endurance races.
Paul also won the Championship Auto RacingTeams' Michigan 500 in 1983.Odd-even gas ration lines formed at service stations across thenation, and skyrocketing mortgage rates made young families despairof ever owning a home.But Americans, on average, saved more than twice as much oftheir income for the future (ital)then(end ital) as they do now.Barring a change, that means potential difficulties for theestimated 77 million baby boomers who will reach retirement ageover the next two decades, he said.Lyons and more than 200 other business and government leadersare meeting in Washington Thursday and Friday (June 4 and 5) tohelp sound that wake-up call.The occasion is the Retirement Education Savings Summit, orderedlast year by Congress and the White House as part of a nationaleffort to spur Americans to begin saving more for retirement.Other Midwesterners invited by White House and congressionalorganizers to participate include Missouri Sen. William Clay of St.Louis; Sheryl Davenport, president of the St. Louis teachers union;and Mike Fitzgerald, Iowa's treasurer.They will map out an aggressive public awareness campaign towarn U.S. workers that they will need personal savings as well asSocial Security and pension income to live comfortably inretirement.Summit participants also will be asked to explore ways thatbusinesses can reduce barriers that keep many workers from savingmore, the secretary said.Officials particularly want suggestions to help small businessesprovide savings opportunities for their employees.
An estimated 25million workers, mostly in businesses with fewer than 25 employees,are not covered by pension plans of any kind other than SocialSecurity.Many of those workers could be covered by plans if theiremployers knew more about low-cost pension programs that areavailable, Herman said.It's nothing personal.
It's just that the 1997 event at TMS isthe scene of Sprague's worst weekend in his four seasons racing thetrucks.Sprague seemingly won the pole for last year's race, but wascaught with an illegal part in his engine during NASCAR'spost-qualifying inspection.
He had to start from the back of thepack.He put on an incredible charge during the race, working his wayback to third, but the backup engine blew.It was an extremely rare deal.
It is the only time in 77 startsthat Sprague failed to finish a race.He has seven victories on tracks of one mile or longer, the mostin series history.His average finish on superspeedways tracks of 1.5 miles orlonger is third if the 31st at TMS last year is disregardedHe has finished in the top five in all seven truck races thisyear, including a victory at the NAPACARD 200 in Monroe, Wash., onMay 9.
His average finish this year is 3.14.The statistics show that Sprague finished fifth at the PartsAmerica 150 last week at Watkins Glen.
What the stats don't show isa charge reminiscent of what he did at TMS last year.Sprague started fifth, but had a flat tire on the 15th lap.
Bythe time he got into the pits and got out again he was back in 32ndplace.He didn't stay there long.
He immediately began to pass trucks,a feat that can be difficult on a road course, and eventually keptalive the string of top-five finishes.LOS ANGELES -- Thirty years ago today, a bullet felled Sen.Robert F. Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel, the last in a chain ofassassinations that robbed many Americans of their politicalidealism and optimism.So it's no surprise that those who were with Kennedy on thattragic night are feeling melancholy about how little has changedsince June 5, 1968 -- from the fragmented state of race relationsto the unresolved controversy that surrounds the senator's death.Thirty years ago, Kennedy was at the Ambassador Hotel to claimvictory in California's presidential primary.
As he left throughthe hotel's kitchen pantry, he passed Sirhan Sirhan, a Palestinianimmigrant enraged by Kennedy's support for Israel.Shots were fired, and Kennedy collapsed.
Sirhan ran, but waswrestled to the ground by Grier and others.
Kennedy died 26 hourslater.
Sirhan was convicted and sentenced to life in prison.If anything, recent events surrounding RFK's death have addedfuel to the conspiracy theorists, who are still demanding a newgovernment investigation into the three-decade-old crime.
Todaythrough Sunday, the Coalition on Political Assassinations willconvene at the Continental Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles to trade itslatest theories.Just a year ago, Sirhan himself insisted to a parole board thathe did not shoot the senator but was framed.
His request to bereleased was denied.Adding to the controversy, a Los Angeles jury awarded aphotographer $450,600 in 1996 on claims that his photos of thesenator's death were mysteriously destroyed.Scott Enyart was 15 on the night of the assassination andcontends that he was standing on a pantry table taking photographsbefore, during and after the tragedy.Enyart sued the city, claiming police confiscated his valuablenegatives, then lost or destroyed them.
After years of litigation,state authorities notified him in January 1996 that his film hadbeen found, misfiled in state archives.But a city courier lost those images, claiming someone stolethem from a rental car when he stopped to fix a flat tire.Defense attorneys claimed Enyart was never in the pantry andthat he only shot one roll, capturing little more than crowd shots-- not the image of Kennedy twisting and falling, as Enyart hasclaimed.Charach, who said he too was in the room when Kennedy waskilled, has made a career investigating Sirhan's claim that anotherman fired the fatal shot.In a request for a new evidentiary hearing and trial for Sirhan,Lawrence Teeter filed a petition last year with the Court ofAppeal, and now it sits before the state Supreme Court.The petition claims police and prosecutors ignored evidence thatan armed security guard with anti-Kennedy views may have fired thefatal shot.
Teeter claims Sirhan may have been hypnotized when hefired his own gun.Grier isn't on the conspiracy theory convention circuit.Instead, the football-player-turned-reverend commemorated theanniversary earlier this week by leading a prayer in front of theAmbassador Hotel.But Grier refused to join a group touring the now-closed hotel,a somewhat surreal journey that climaxed with Los AngelesCouncilman Nate Holden speaking hopefully about racial unity in thepantry where Kennedy was slain.Joseph Cerrell, a Los Angeles political consultant who wasworking in his Ambassador Hotel-based office on June 5, 1968,recently took his first tour of the building in more than a decade.EXCELSIOR SPRINGS, Mo.
A lot of American workers go to workknowing exactly what they're earning a set amount for each hour,each week or each month.
They know it.
They plan on it.
And theygrouse about it.So what happens when the rank and file are paid like CEOs?
No,not the same amount.
In the same profit-based way.
If the companydoes well, everybody's paycheck increases.
Everybody's.Larry Sternberg is going to find out whether the concept works.When The Elms Resort and Spa reopens this summer in ExcelsiorSprings, general manager Sternberg will have every employee on anincentive pay plan.
Each month's paychecks will reflect thestrength of corporate performance the month before.Yes, he's guaranteeing base pay.
But, frankly, that minimum islikely to be below what employees could earn elsewhere in thehospitality industry.The hospitality industry is seasonal.
In lean months, paycheckswill be smaller, though Sternberg said he wouldn't cut into theguaranteed base pay.
In profitable months, paychecks will belarger.
The vagaries will require better budgeting by all workers.Some applicants aren't willing to take the chance.
Others arewilling to give it a try.
Those are the workers Sternberg wants the people who will work hard to help the entire operation prosper,not just because their own paychecks will benefit.Sternberg prefers to think of the profit-distribution plan as anincentive program rather than a pay program.
The goal, he said, isfor all employees to come to work each day thinking about what theycan do to maximize company profits, which, of course, is done bysatisfying customers, saving operating costs and performingproductively.Sternberg is confident he'll prove the naysayers wrong.
Hefigures this kind of incentive plan is at the heart ofentrepreneurism, where people work hard because of financialself-interest.The exact profit-sharing formula is not set, but as of a fewweeks before the scheduled reopening in early July, Sternberg isaiming for a monthly distribution of about 8 percent of profits.Profit distribution will not be entirely egalitarian.
It will bedistributed to workers as fractions of their salary or wage rate.In other words, the president's fraction is bigger than the maid'sbecause the president's base pay is higher.Sternberg still thinks the front line will come out ahead ofwhere they would have been without profit-sharing.
A year from now,he should know.KANSAS CITY, Mo.
Sometimes, on an afternoon in summer, it canbe fine just to strike out aimlessly in some unfamiliar directionand see where the road takes you.That's how childhood summers are recalled as having beenspiced with accidental pleasures.
Even now, an eternity pastchildhood, that was the feeling of this day.Our destination, more or less, was the river.
Beyond that, therewas no plan.Once I walked the whole river bank, from the city's west end toits far eastern limit.
There were fresh beaver cuttings in thewillow and cottonwood brakes at the water's edge.
And half-buriedmooring cables from the time when the Missouri was a busy highwayof settlement and commerce.I would like to have shown her that.
But the river is harder toget to now.It's been most of 30 years ago, and maybe memory is flawed.
ButI think you could walk down to it almost anywhere you cared to, andin many places could drive at least as far as the levee.There may be ways to do that still, but if so we couldn't findthem.
Chains and gates barred every approach.So, paying no attention to the highway numbers, we proceededeast a bit, then crossed a bridge and continued on, the river onour right-hand side now.The landscapes broadened and changed.
Warehouses and giantfactories gave way to rolling pastures, soft as green pillows,mounting up from wooded valleys through which ran bright littlestreams.Sometimes we were near the river, and could spy it through thetrees.
Other times the road bent away from the lowland and up intothe hills.We passed through towns we'd never seen before, and whose nameswe only half-thought we might have heard some of them places ofmodest substance, others faint outposts of habitation thatsheltered fewer than 150 souls.Proud signs told the year of their establishment, only a coupleof decades short of two centuries ago.River ports, some of them surely were when the river was thewestward way.
Then the world rushed on, and took prosperity withit, and left those places hardly changed.In one of them we saw three boys talking by the road.
We stoppedto ask the way to the river, which could not have been 500 yardsfrom where they stood.So that's what it's come to now.
Boys growing up in a rivertown, unable to get to the river without hoofing it five miles downthe road.
Sam Clemens would spin like a top in his grave.We did find the little sign, and took the way it pointed, upover a railroad track and across the flats to a parking place and aramp for launching boats.Only then could one appreciate the true power and swiftness ofthe current.
Its surface broken by little rips and whorls, thegreat muscular Missouri came sliding past on its journey across anddown the continent as it has all these many thousand years.With their outboard engine laboring at full throttle against theflow, the men in the boat hardly could be seen to move.Then the sun lay like a fat apricot atop the trees.
A littlebreeze came up and blew the heat away.
The air between the hillssoftened to blue.And we turned back in twilight, trying to remember the way we'dcome, filled up with the summer adventure of having done almostnothing at all.George Tiller, a Wichita abortion provider, and his Women'sHealth Care Services filed the lawsuit.
Tiller wants the new law,which becomes effective July 1, to be put on hold to give thejustices time to decide its fate.Those on both sides of the abortion issue have raised questionsabout the wording of the hastily written bill.Gov.
Bill Graves signed the measure but later said it might takea court challenge to clarify it.Graves, who ran for office four years ago as a supporter ofexisting law, drew fire from abortion-rights activists after hesigned the bill into law.Dave Gittrich, a spokesman for Kansans for Life, said theorganization would file briefs in support of the law.Tiller, in urging the court to hear the case, said it shouldtake the action now because if the case is filed in a lower court,appeals eventually will bring it before the justices anyway.The court is expected to decide before the end of the monthwhether to hear the case, dismiss it or send it to a districtcourt.Word of the filing came as no surprise to Planned Parenthood ofMid-Missouri and Eastern Kansas.The new law also requires detailed reporting of abortions to theKansas Department of Health and Environment.
Tiller argued thatsuch a requirement could violate the self-incrimination provisionsof the U.S. Constitution.That could occur, the lawsuit said, if he performed abortions hebelieved to be legal and completed reports on them, and then theywere ruled illegal and he was prosecuted.
The records could be usedagainst him.In another area, Tiller said the law was so restrictive in casesof medical emergency that a doctor could not act quickly to performan abortion when the fetus was viable if the woman's life was indanger.The lawsuit does not challenge a portion of the law that bans aprocedure often referred to as partial-birth abortion.Gittrich argued that the bill took steps toward reducing thenumber of late-term abortions performed on Kansas women as well asthose who traveled to the state specifically for the procedure.NEW YORK Two weeks after the New York Mets acquired MikePiazza from the Los Angeles Dodgers, they reunited him on Thursdaynight with one of the pitchers he caught every five days, HideoNomo.Four days after they designated Nomo for assignment followinghis request to be traded, the Dodgers shipped the Japaneseright-hander to the Mets along with reliever Brad Clontz.
The Metssent the Dodgers Dave Mlicki, their No.
5 starting pitcher, andreliever Greg McMichael.Nomo, who had a 2-7 record and a 5.05 earned run average in 12starts this season, had hoped he would be traded to the Mets.According to a person familiar with the development, the pitcher'sagent, Don Nomura, told the Dodgers that if they did not tradedNomo to the Mets, he would go home to Japan.Besides rejoining Piazza, Nomo becomes a teammate of his bestfriend, Masato Yoshii, another of the Mets' starting pitchers.
Theywill make the Mets the first team in major league history with twoJapanese starting pitchers, and New York will have three, includingthe Yankees' Hideki Irabu.The Mets have had good starting pitching this season, but Mlickiwas the weak link with a 1-4 record and 5.68 era.Nomo, the National League rookie of the year in 1995, has neverduplicated that season's performance of 13-6 and 2.54 era.
Hisrecord has slipped in each succeeding season, reaching 14-12 and4.25 last season.
He has maintained his strikeout total, but theratio of strikeouts per inning has slipped.The decision of Fred Claire, the Dodgers' general manager, todesignated Nomo for assignment that meant the Dodgers had to movehim within 10 days was a shocking development, apparently even toNomo and Nomura, who thought the Dodgers would just proceed with anattempt to trade the 29-year-old native of Osaka.Claire, however, explained that he took that step because he didnot want Nomo pitching for the Dodgers once he publicly declaredhis desire to be traded.
Nomo had planned to disclose that desireat a news conference last Monday, but at that session, Claireannounced his action.More than half of the 30 major league teams called Claire toinquire about a possible trade, but apparently only a handfulseriously pursued Nomo.
The Baltimore Orioles were interested, butthe Dodgers wanted a starting pitcher in return and the Orioles didnot have one to give them.
Cleveland was another team that was saidto have tried to make a deal with the Dodgers.The Mets willingly included Mlicki in the package, but they didnot want to part with McMichael; they would have preferredincluding John Hudek or Turk Wendell.
But the Dodgers wanted areliever of the caliber of McMichael, and the Mets relented becausethey wanted Nomo.The pitcher has other connections to the Mets besides Piazza andYoshii.
Dave Wallace, who is a senior adviser to General ManagerSteve Phillips, had been the Dodgers' pitching coach.
In addition,Manager Bobby Valentine managed in Japan, though that was in 1995,the year after Nomo's last as a pitcher in Japan.Fleming, who last year co-sponsored with Mayor Richard Riordanthe measure that created an elected Charter Reform Commission andrecently helped fund a poll on Valley secession, warned thatfailure to take dramatic action could lead to the breakup of thecity.His charter proposal, announced Thursday, would preserve LosAngeles as a city by having each of the 15 elected district boardssend its mayor -- the City Council member under the current system-- and several representatives to a 50-member Metropolitan Councilthat would decide citywide issues such as harbor, airport,utilities, police and fire services.Members of the district boards and Metropolitan Council wouldserve on a part-time basis and be paid about $100 a meeting.The downtown metropolitan government would continue to providecentralized police, fire, public works and other services for thewhole city, but the local districts would be free to shop from amenu of services.As an incentive to development, local districts would be able tokeep revenue generated by their decisions for enhancing theirneighborhoods.Fleming, who has avoided direct comment as the elected andappointed Charter Reform Commissions grappled and often stumbled indifferent directions, chose as a forum for his proposal a majormeeting on charter reform sponsored by the Valley Industry andCommerce Association.With his longtime leadership roles in the VICA, the EconomicAlliance of the Valley and numerous civic and philanthropicorganizations, Fleming long has been regarded as the unofficialmayor of the Valley.His proposal was well-received by VICA and other Valley leaderswho have been debating endorsement of similar proposals, but othersoutside the Valley rejected Fleming's ideas outright.Sam Bell, who heads the Los Angeles Business Advisors, saiddowntown business leaders would actively oppose any system of localcouncils with power to decide planning matters.Bell said the group of prominent downtown corporation leaderswants to expand the City Council from 15 to 33 or 35 members, butopposes empowered neighborhood councils.Fleming, however, said he would transfer significant powers tothe 15 district boards, including authority to set locations andhours for local parks and libraries, deciding which trees to trimand streets to repair, and regulating street vending and signs.Each district could contract with the metropolitan governmentfor local services, but they could also put tax-increase measureson the district ballot to improve services in their area.Fleming's charter would contain a doctrine of regional supremacythat would allow citywide interests to take precedence over localones.
For instance, a district near Los Angeles InternationalAirport could not shut down the facility if it conflicted with thecitywide policy.The mayor would serve as the arbitrator when the interests oftwo districts conflict, with the mayor's decision subject toratification by the Metropolitan Council, which could override on atwo-thirds vote.Answering concerns about anti-development neighborhood boards,Fleming proposed the incentive of having new tax revenue generatedby development staying with the district.He cited the economic boom in Burbank, in the San FernandoValley, as an example of what could happen if each of the 15districts benefits from rising tax revenue generated by newdevelopment.While the 15 districts reflect the current number of councildistricts, boundaries would be reconfigured to reflect communitiesand shared interests.VICA leaders said the plan is very similar to their proposal ofa system of elected town councils with decision-making powers.The Fleming proposal is also similar to an idea advanced byelected Charter Reform Commission member Paula Boland.
She was notat the forum, but attorney Rob Glushon of suburban Encino, anothermember of the city's elected charter panel, said he is open toFleming's concept.Brain was skeptical about whether the proposal will be acceptedeither by the Charter Reform Commissions or the City Council.Councilwoman Jackie Goldberg said she is concerned that someparts of the city would have more development, new tax money andbetter services than others.Fleming said his proposal would require that all areas of thecity retain, at a minimum, their current levels of services andrevenue.Goldberg favors local councils with decision-making power onland-use issues and access to a small pot of money, about $250,000,to spend on local priorities.Los Angeles cannot afford, for instance, to do what she saidTorrance does, which is to turn down federal funds for low-incomehousing.She also predicted it would also be hard to get voter approvalof expanding the City Council to 50 members.Fleming said his proposal provides for part-time members of thedistrict boards and Metropolitan Council, who might at most receivea $100-per-meeting stipend, except for the district mayors.The first mayor of each district would be the City Councilmember who represents the district in 2001, when the new charterwould take effect.
They would be paid the same $107,390 a year theynow earn as City Council members and would retain their staffs.Each five- to seven-member district board would meet once aweek.
Each would send its mayor and a few board members to theMetropolitan Council, which might meet three or four times a month.The mayor of Los Angeles would remain the city's chiefadministrator, with expanded power over policy, and hiring andfiring department heads.Fleming said the new system of government should begin July 1,2001, when the current mayor and half of the City Council will beterm-limited out of office.
He plans to formally present the planto Riordan and both Charter Reform Commissions soon.Riordan has proposed creation of a system of advisoryneighborhood councils, selected at local caucuses, with some powerover a portion of the city budget.WASHINGTON A near-collision by two big passenger jets at LaGuardia Airport in New York in April has prompted the FederalAviation Administration to order retraining for the 10,000 airtraffic controllers working in airport towers nationwide.A US Airways DC-9 arriving at La Guardia on April 3 flew under adeparting Air Canada A-320, the two planes missing each other by aslittle as 20 feet, according to the FAA.The near-collision had not been previously disclosed, in partbecause information about it was not forwarded properly forinvestigation and agency officials therefore did not learn about ituntil several weeks later, the FAA said.
Agency officials said acontroller at the La Guardia air traffic tower had promptlyinformed his supervisor, but the supervisor did not properly reportit to his superiors.The US Airways pilot did report the incident after he returnedto his base in Pittsburgh, but that report, too, was mishandled,the agency said.Brenner said that his office had received inquiries about theincident in early April from The New York Times, The WashingtonPost and CBS News.
But after checking records and finding nomention of a near-collision or a so-called operational error whena controller's mistake puts two planes in close proximity he toldthose organizations that there had been no problem.
News of theretraining was first reported in Friday morning's editions of TheWashington Post.Brenner said on Thursday night that the incident occurred about9:30 a.m. on April 3, when the winds were low and La Guardia wasusing two intersecting runways.
The Air Canada flight was departingto the northwest and the US Airways flight was approaching on asouthwest heading.According to the FAA, the go-around order was proper but camelate.
But the FAA still has not cited the controller who gave theorder, and has not ascribed an error to anyone else.
The FAA iscontinue to investigate, as is the National Transportation SafetyBoard.The executive vice president of the National Air TrafficControllers Association, Randy Schwitz, said that the FAA had cometo his union and said it wanted to order two hours of additionaltraining for all controllers in airport towers around the country.The FAA said the reason was to reduce incidents at airports, butthe agency did not tie it to the event at La Guardia, he said.The retraining plan does not include controllers at air routetraffic control centers, which handle mostly high-altitude,long-distance airliners, or at the terminal radar approachcontrols, which handle planes as they descend to airports or climbaway from them.Priscille LeBlanc, a spokeswoman for Air Canada, had no specificinformation about a near-collision on April 3 at La GuardiaAirport.
She did recall receiving a query from a newspaper aroundthat time about a near-miss incident, but couldn't say for certainwhether that was the same incident.Sharon Taylor, a spokeswoman for US Airways, said that she didnot have any information on such an incident.LOS ANGELES -- The two young children of Phil and Brynn Hartmanjoined relatives at a private memorial service for theactor-comedian and his wife, a week after she killed him and thencommitted suicide.The hourlong eulogy Thursday in a stone cemetery chapel atForest Lawn Memorial Park in suburban Glendale drew more than 20family members and their spouses, as news helicopters hovered aboveand reporters stood outside the cemetery gates.A few paparazzi tried to storm the hilltop Church of theRecessional but were turned back by security personnel, said familyspokesman Stan Rosenfield.Hartman and his wife have been cremated, in accordance withtheir wills, which directed that the 49-year-old comic's ashes bescattered at Emerald Bay off Catalina Island, Rosenfield said.Rosenfield said he hopes that by Monday he will announce thecharities that relatives have selected to receive donations onbehalf of the Hartmans.On Wednesday night, celebrities and friends of Phil Hartmanattended a memorial service at The Groundlings, the Melrose Avenueimprov company that Hartman belonged to from 1975 to 1986.Earlier this week, Los Angeles police released a tape of the 911call that led them to the couple's home in suburban Encino on May28.
The caller, Ron Douglas of nearby Studio City, told dispatchersthat Brynn Hartman, a longtime friend, had come to his homesometime after 3 a.m. and confessed to shooting her husband.Initially disbelieving her, Douglas followed her back to theHartmans' home, where he saw Phil Hartman's body and called police.Douglas was taking one of the couple's children from the house whenBrynn Hartman, 40, locked herself in the master bedroom and shotherself.According to police, she did not tell Douglas why she killed herhusband.Friends of the Hartmans said the marriage was troubled by boththe comedian's inability to communicate with his wife and her boutswith drugs and alcohol.Police found no illegal drugs in the house after themurder-suicide, but coroner's investigators plan to do furthertoxicological tests, the results of which will not be available forat least a week.Sandwiched around an exciting 3-2 victory over the St. LouisCardinals, the Los Angeles Dodgers traded Hideo Nomo to the NewYork Mets and learned that they might have lost left-fielder ToddHollandsworth for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury.And now they head to Seattle, ground zero for the failed RandyJohnson trade, where they open a three-game interleague seriestonight with the Mariners.They feel pretty good winning for the second consecutive nightafter dropping four in a row.
They feel better about seeing Chan HoPark regain his confidence by pitching seven strong innings on anight he didn't have his best stuff.And best of all, they got clutch hitting from Charles Johnson,who won it in the ninth with a two-out single after Eric Karrostied it in the eighth with his sixth RBI in two games.They finally unloaded Nomo, who had demanded to be traded.
TheDodgers receive two pitchers: hard throwing starter Dave Mlicki,who will join the team in Seattle and could start in that series,and reliever Greg McMichael.
The Dodgers also gave up reliever BradClontz, who was pitching at Triple-A.Before the game, the club learned that Hollandsworth, who washitting well for the first time since winning the 1996 Rookie ofthe Year Award, had torn cartilage in his left shoulder and willundergo surgery Thursday.But for the players, the game was the thing.
And for Johnson, itwas particularly gratifying.
He got Park through a long outing andcontinued his hot hitting.
Johnson is 10 for 23 with three homersin a six-game hitting streak that started after an 0 for 35stretch.The victory went to Scott Radinsky (2-2), who has a win and asave after blowing two save opportunities over the weekend.He was coming off a five-RBI game Wednesday night, but he wasbooed when he had trouble running out a sixth-inning grounderbecause of his chronically sore left knee.
Later, when a foul poplanded near him, Karros couldn't dive because of the knee thatforced him to miss 22 games to begin the season.Even when he pitched well last Friday, the Dodgers bullpen blewthe lead in the ninth and lost the game in the 12th.He did not have his good fastball.
But when he started to retireCardinals hitters without it, his confidence soared.LOS ANGELES -- When John Elway walked the halls of Granada HillsHigh School in the late 1970s, he was a big man on campus --leading the baseball team to back-to-back city championships andthe football team to the city playoffs.The 37-year-old Denver Broncos quarterback and Super Bowlchampion returned to suburban Granada Hills to join 3,500 fans forthe renaming of the football field as John Elway Stadium.
It hadbeen named after founding Principal Bryce Schurr.For Elway, who traveled from his home in Engelwood, Colo., withhis 8-year-old son, Jack, this marked a rare appearance at his almamater.Just this week, Elway announced that he would play one moreseason in the National Football League before calling it quits.
OnThursday, his return to the stadium where it all began elicitedmemories of his high school victories -- one in particular.The renaming of the stadium was engineered by Elway's highschool teammate Chris Sutton, coach Darryl Stroh and PrincipalKathleen Rattay.
And it did not come easily.Albert Irwin, the school's principal from 1976-86, who signedElway's diploma, acknowledged there was a lot of controversy overthe name change.Former teammates and current coaches also say Elway deserves thehonor.
His name on the new $8,000 scoreboard, donated by ananonymous former high school teammate of Elway's, will helpmotivate future Highlander players, they say.In talking to the students, Elway espoused those ideals, tellingthem to set goals just above their reach and get an education sothey will be prepared for future opportunities.That and more have earned him cult status among his fans, butthat was nowhere more apparent than in Denver, where two TVstations carried the 50-minute ceremony live.BOSTON There may have still been a few holdouts despite whatthey saw on television last weekend in New York, but no more.The Bret Saberhagen bandwagon is back at capacity after the RedSox righthander, in his longest start since 1995, went seveninnings in a 9-1 win over the Baltimore Orioles before 33,104 fansThursday night in Fenway Park.The sellout crowd included Cardinal Bernard Law, who is said tohave a passing acquaintance with miracles, and Saberhagen's formerNew York teammate John Franco and a couple of his playmates,including newcomer Mike Piazza, who will be in uniform for the Metsin their first visit to Fenway Park since 1986.FYI: The Steamer, Bob Stanley, has not been invited back tothrow out Friday night's ceremonial first pitch.
The Sox did notwant to renew the debate on whether it would be a wild pitch orpassed ball.For most ballplayers, the ballpark is the last place they'd wantto spend an off day.
Saberhagen figures Franco stuck around for nomore than five innings, which in the past would have assured theMets closer of missing at most an inning of his friend'sperformance.But not Thursday night, as Saberhagen went seven innings for thefirst time in 23 starts dating back to Aug. 13, 1995.
Aided by twodouble plays and throwing his curveball with a frequency thatsurprised the Orioles, Saberhagen clearly ended the tailspin thatraised questions about the staples, paste, and paper clips holdinghis surgically repaired shoulder together.Though the Orioles had runners in each of his innings,Saberhagen did not allow a run until B.J.
Surhoff hit a hangingcurveball over the Red Sox bullpen for a home run with one out inthe seventh.
Saberhagen's best inning was the sixth, when theOrioles had runners on the corners with no outs and he struck outJoe Carter and retired the next two batters, Harold Baines andRafael Palmeiro, on easy fly balls.Saberhagen's most efficient inning was the fourth, when he gaveup a leadoff single to Carter on his first pitch and needed onlytwo more pitches to retire the side.
Baines hit a comebacker thatSaberhagen turned into a double play, and Palmeiro flied to left.The Red Sox had been shut out the night before by Doug Johns, anitinerant pitcher who began the previous spring touring cheesefactories while playing in Parma, Italy.But Thursday night against a 22-year-old righthander from Aruba,Sidney Ponson, the Red Sox finally took advantage of an Oriolespitching staff that has three starters occupying the disabled list.Every batter in the Boston lineup reached base at least onceagainst Ponson and three relievers, with Darren Lewis breaking thegame open in the sixth by wrapping a two-run homer around the PeskyPole, making it 5-0.
Lewis now has three home runs, two that havecurled into the right-field grandstand.Mo Vaughn had his first three-hit game since May 8, while MikeBenjamin, who will be alternating with Lou Merloni at second base,had two singles, scored three runs, drove in two, and made twoterrific defensive plays.The Red Sox, who begin a week's worth of interleague play with athree-game set against the Mets this weekend, split a pair herewith the Orioles, whom they won't see again until right after theAll-Star break.In their first extended stretch against their chief rivals inthe American League East the Yankees, Blue Jays, and Orioles the Red Sox went 6-7, including five wins in their last six games.LOS ANGELES -- Debbie Weiss sat on the edge of her son Brian'sbed, watching him take out his anger and hurt on the keyboard ofhis computer.She wanted to walk over and hug him, cry with him.
Instead, shelet him be, let him write it from the heart.The woman from the hospice had left the house only minutesearlier.
It would be a few more days, a week tops, she had toldDebbie and Brian.A week tops for 51-year-old Rick Weiss, slowly dying.
And thenDebbie would be a widow, and Brian fatherless.
Because of a badhabit.There would be no more nights when Debbie would look into theden and see her husband and son on the couch together, watching oneof those science or nature shows they loved so much on the cablechannels.
No bringing them dinner while they sat in front of thecomputer working out some difficult science and math problemstogether.They weren't much for sports, this father and son, but theybonded solidly in the mind.And now, when her husband should be here sharing the proudestmoment of his son's academic life -- reveling with Brian in the sixmedals he won individually and with his Fairmont Private Schoolteammates in the Orange County Academic Pentathlon -- Rick wasinstead lying in a hospice, dying.And a 12-year-old boy wasn't able to share a joyful hug with thefather who led him down this academic road to victory.Instead, theboy was up in his room venting his anger and hurt -- writing aletter to tobacco manufacturers.It took Brian five minutes, his mother says -- five minutes infront of the computer in his room to bang out this letter to thepeople he felt were responsible for killing his father: the tobaccomanufacturers.Debbie sat by her husband's bed in the hospice a couple ofnights before he died, holding the letter her son had written tothe tobacco manufacturers.
She wanted Rick to hear it.Nobody but Rick could say for sure what was going through hismind at that moment, but most fathers could imagine.He was too upset and angry at himself to listen to his son'sletter.
He was leaving behind a wife and a son he loved very muchbecause of a bad habit.
How tragically stupid he had been.Debbie held her husband's hand and told him it was OK. Sheunderstood.
She said Brian had decided not to go ahead and mail theletter to tobacco manufacturers because they probably would justthrow it in the trash can anyway.Brian had come up with a better plan.
With his rabbi's blessing,he was using the letter as his act of good deed for his bar mitzvahnext year -- using it to gather signatures for a anti-smokingpetition to send to tobacco manufacturers and politicians.A 12-year-old boy going out and spreading the word to anyone whowill listen about how it is to lose a father you love very much toa bad habit that kills.BOSTON He is the fourth-oldest Oriole ever, behind RickDempsey, Dizzy Trout, and Dave Philley.
He stands seventh all-timewith 979 games pitched and is taking a run at the No.
6 man, LindyMcDaniel, at 987.Add the two World Series rings with the New York Mets and LosAngeles Dodgers and you'd think Baltimore reliever Jesse Orosco,who turned 41 April 21 and is in his 21st professional season 18in the majors would look back on his career and point to thechampionships and the personal statistics as his crowningachievements.But Orosco, who saved Game 7 of the 1986 World Series againstthe Red Sox for the Mets, figures he's probably set a differentkind of rec-ord.Orosco, who had a career-high 71 appearances with the Orioleslast season and whose 975 relief appearances for five teams rankfourth in major league history, is still going strong, physicallyand mentally.BOSTON He was a career .247 hitter who signed on last Decemberwith his fifth major league team since the 1995 season.
But Red Soxoutfielder Darren Lewis, who went 3 for 5 with a home run inThursday night's 9-1 thrashing of the Orioles at Fenway Park, isnot only batting .300, he's rediscovered his old San FranciscoGiants niche as a leadoff hitter.Pressed into service at the top of the order by Jimy Williamswhen Nomar Garciaparra went down with a shoulder injury in earlyMay, Lewis has batted leadoff in 23 of Boston's last 24 games.Both Williams and Lewis were part of the dramatic 1993 pennantrace in the National League West when the Braves, for whom Williamswas a coach, won their 104th game on the last day of the regularseason.
The Giants, who won 103 games that season, the last beforethe wild card, were beaten by the Dodgers in their final game.Lewis, who set a personal season high Thursday night with sixtotal bases and tied his season highs with three hits and threeRBIs, would like nothing better than to get another taste ofpostseason play.He came heartbreakingly close as a key man with the Giants in'93 and was a backup outfielder with the Reds in 1995 when theywere eliminated in the National League Championship Series by theBraves.BUFFALO Joe Juneau, pilot, aeronautical engineer, and center,helped the Capitals fly into the Stanley Cup finals Thursday nightwhen he knocked home Brian Bellows's rebound at 6:24 of overtime,leading Washington to a 3-2 victory over the Sabres in Game 6 ofthe Eastern Conference finals at Marine Midland Arena.Juneau, the former Bruin who was traded to Washington in March1994 for Al Iafrate, was left with an easy tap at the right postafter Bellows twice took shots at goalie Dominik Hasek shots thatwere set up by another ex-Bruin, Adam Oates.And so ended the Sabres' Cinderella run in the spring of '98.Although backed by Hasek, considered the best goalie in the world,the young Sabres ultimately could not match the Capitals' veterantouch around the net as they lost the best-of-seven series, 4-2.And Hasek was slightly outplayed by Olaf Kolzig, who turned back 39shots Thursday night in leading the Caps to the finals for thefirst time in their 24-year history.The Caps will visit the winner of the Western Conference finals Dallas or Detroit in Game 1 Tuesday.
Game 2 will be Thursday,followed by Games 3 and 4 in Washington the following Saturday andTuesday.Thursday Washington coach Ron Wilson captured his club'simagination by asking his players to focus on the accomplishmentsof Apollo 11.The one giant leap for the Caps came on a neutral-zone turnoverby Buffalo defenseman Darryl Shannon.
Oates took possession outsidethe blue line, fed Bellows, and the rest was in the hands ofMission Control.The Sabres appeared to have a date for Game 7 set in the thirdperiod when Paul Kruse used one of his skates to knock in a BobBoughner slapper.
Fighting for position down low in the slot, Krusecouldn't have seen Boughner's steamer tick off his boot and slippast Kolzig for the 2-1 lead.
Thousands of white pom-poms in thecrowd were raised in celebration, looking like ghosts of playoffspast for the Caps, who three times in their history lost seriesafter taking 3-1 leads.With 5:59 remaining in regulation, the persistent Caps tied it,2-2, when Peter Bondra redirected Andrei Nikolishin's pass from theright wing board.
It turned out to be the end for the Sabres, aplucky bunch of kids who rallied around Hasek, their Olympicgold-medal goalie, and came within six victories of a Cup.The Caps now have four days to rest their aged bones and preparefor the finals.
Too old and too tattered to get to where they'regoing, they could be trooping the Stanley Cup down PennsylvaniaAvenue in a couple of weeks.In the meantime, Wilson can work on his next theme, maybesomething with William Shattner or Leonard Nimoy.
The Caps haveshown there is a whole universe of possibilities.Nomo, designated for assignment Monday after demanding theDodgers trade him, was sent to the New York Mets in a four-playerdeal that was completed after O'Malley assured the pitcher he wouldnot be sent to a team against his wishes.The trade reunites Nomo with former pitching coach Dave Wallaceand catcher Mike Piazza.
Mets starter Masato Yoshii was a formerteammate with the Kintetsu Buffaloes and New York manager BobbyValentine managed one season in Japan.But according to several sources, O'Malley's personalrelationship with Nomo helped shape the deal.
O'Malley stressedThursday in a private meeting with Japanese media the importance ofhis friendship with Nomo, who O'Malley helped sign in 1995.Claire spent most of Thursday negotiating with four clubsincluding Baltimore, Cleveland and Texas.
The Angels, who hadexpressed an interest in Nomo, were asked about closer TroyPercival but said no.Nomo, the 1995 National League Rookie of the Year, is looking toget his career back on track after dropping to 2-7 with a 5.05 ERAat the time he was designated.
He is in the final season of athree-year contract that is paying $2.8 million.Nomo became frustrated when the Dodgers did not offer a contractextension this winter.
Last fall, he underwent surgery to removebone chips from his right elbow.
He also had personality clasheswith Dodgers manager Bill Russell, but the lack of a contractbeyond this season was the leading reason for his unhappiness.Claire was very close to completing a deal with Baltimore onWednesday, but O'Malley intervened after Nomo indicated he did notwant to play for the Orioles.Mlicki, who will join the Dodgers this weekend in Seattle, ismaking $1.25 million in the first of a two-year contract.McMichael, who will join the Dodgers on Monday when they open athree-game series against Oakland, is guaranteed $1.8 million thisseason with a $1.95 million option for next season.
The optionbecomes guaranteed if he pitches in at least 31 more games thisseason.The Dodgers were hoping to get left-handed reliever BrianBohanon, who is earning $350,000 this year.
But his 2-2 record and2.30 ERA and the ability to start and relieve made him too valuableto the Mets.Here is a list of NATIONAL stories and general ADVISORIES thatmoved Thursday, June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. TimesNews Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of CAMPAIGN stories that moved through 2:30a.m.
today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved Thursday, June4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved Thursday, June4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Thursday,June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved Thursday, June 4,through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of ENTERTAINMENT stories that moved Thursday,June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnists that moved yesterdaythrough 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved Thursday, June4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of FOOD and DINING stories that moved Thursday,June 4, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.SALT LAKE CITY Since errors occur so infrequently in thisspace, the discovery of one becomes a rare nugget worthy ofexamination.
Strictly for the advancement of science, we bringforth a particularly luminous one.About two years ago this week, it was written here that thetriumph of the SuperSonics in the Western Conference Finals crushedthe last, best chance for the aging tandem of Karl Malone and JohnStockton to lead the Utah Jazz to an NBA championship.In the technical jargon of basketball journalism, theobservation is known as a boink (in Seattle, a boink is also knownas a Vin Baker free throw).After watching the Jazz put the Chicago Bulls in a place theyhaven't experienced in seven years behind in the Finals onWednesday night, it is apparent that I severely misread theexpiration date stamped on the side of the Jazz.A bit of solace in the faulty judgment comes from the fact thatthe premature obituary of the Jazz was written, read and acceptedby lots of people, including the handful of folks smarter thansportswriters.That might be true, but the more likely cause is that few haveever seen the likes of Stockton and Malone.
We're not talking abouttheir floor games here; certainly, every sports fan in Seattleknows the Malone-Stockton pick-and-roll better than they knowbreakfast.
Malone's big haunches have been backing down on Sonicpost men for a dozen years.It's just that Malone and Stockton keep doing it.
Again andagain and again.
Malone has missed just five games out of the 1,076in his career.
Until Stockton missed this season's first 18 gamesrecovering from knee surgery, he had missed just four compared tothe 1,158 games he had put in.Among all the accolades, statistics and awards that these futureHall of Famers have accumulated, their constancy of excellence atthe top of the NBA game is the most astonishing feat.A little bit is luck from lack of injuries.
But the source forthis legacy is the supplementing of their physical gifts with awork ethic that is unsurpassed.The only way Stockton, 35, and Malone, 35 next month, can beattempting to wrest the NBA world from the Midwestern Hercules isthrough a year-round dedication that is unknown to so many youngerstars.Newcomers to the Jazz team are regularly dumbstruck by Malone'shabits.
He arrives two hours before practice to lift weights, andafter practice he spends an hour on a Stairmaster.Stockton takes two weeks off after the season, then begins acruel regimen back home in Spokane that has him up to a five-hourdaily workout by August.His resting heart rate is 35 beats a minute, which is half therate of the average person.
He and Malone have 4 percent body fat,about what is found on world-class bike racers.
Theircardiovascular systems, lung capacities and blood pressures are farsuperior to most athletes in any sport.Which is just another way of explaining how the Jazz outscoredthe Bulls 21-6 on fast-break points in Game 1.
Despite the chronicaches that afflict joints, and some decline in skill, Stockton andMalone are confined to mid-30s bodies only by the numbers on theirdrivers' licenses.For Sloan, the ethic of Stockton and Malone exacts the kind ofteammate pressure that makes coaching new players easier.It's no coincidence that the Jazz's opposition in thistournament is led by a semi-elderly group (Michael Jordan, 35,Scottie Pippen 32, and Dennis Rodman, 37) that also has told FatherTime to drop dead.
Sloan was amused that so much was made ofJordan's apparent game-ending fatigue Wednesday.Yet what has driven them is not altogether mercenary.
Jazz ownerLarry Miller told the Deseret News of a locker-room encounter withStockton a few years ago.Nor is a calendar an effective instrument with which to measurethem.SEATTLE It does not seem possible, but the Mariners discoveredanother way to lose a game Thursday night.
Unbelievably, thebullpen was not a factor.The Angels delivered the newest blow, a 6-2 defeat, which meansthe Mariners have now been swept in two straight two-game series.It won't happen again this weekend.
The Dodgers are here for threegames.Thursday night the Angels scored the winning run on asuicide-squeeze play, unusual enough at the major-league level,particularly when executed flawlessly.Justin Baughman got the bunt down, and Orlando Palmeiro racedhome untouched as starter Ken Cloude threw to first for the secondout in the fourth inning.With that, he sprayed on some cologne and walked away, the manwho took a called third strike to end the game.Ken Griffey Jr. supplied the only response during the game, atwo-run homer in the first inning.
Afterward, it was clear thecenter fielder is not being paid by the syllable.Cecil Fielder is usually spotted launching majestic home runs.In the Angels clubhouse, he was holding a victory brew and perhapsa few answers for the Mariners.The slugger knows what the Mariners are going through.
He playedfor the Detroit Tigers, a high-scoring team with a pitching staffthat could not shut anyone down.Fielder also believes the Mariners might be struggling becauseof all the trade rumors revolving around Randy Johnson.
Like manyothers, he doesn't get it.The Mariners went in front 2-0 in the first inning after Griffeysmacked a two-run homer off the facing of the second deck in rightfield.
Griffey entered the game with just one hit off Angelsstarter Ken Hill in 15 career at-bats.Griffey broke ahead of teammate Alex Rodriguez in their AmericanLeague home-run battle, Junior stroking his 22nd while the Marinershortstop remained at 21 after going 0-for-3.
Griffey tiedColorado's Vinny Castilla for second in the major league home-runrace.
They both trail Mark McGwire, who has 27.Ahead 4-2, the Angels added another run in the eighth amidKingdome silence that was interrupted only by occasional boos fromsome disgruntled customers among the gathering of 23,709.And, yes, the boos were directed at two ineffective Marinerrelievers, Greg McCarthy and Mike Timlin.
McCarthy, the left-handerwho was just called up from Tacoma Wednesday, received a hostilewelcome after walking three of the five batters he faced.
Timlinwas doused after allowing a run-scoring single to DiSarcina.A fitting accessory to a Mariner loss showed up in the ninthinning.
Bobby Ayala is the reliever with an 0-5 record who alloweda game-winning two-run homer in his last appearance Tuesday inBaltimore.
Thursday night he gave up one more run as the moodturned somber and fans turned toward the stairs and the parkinglot.The Mariners blew a chance to pick up ground on AL West-leadingTexas but moved within one game of last-place Oakland.Although he leaves Seattle with his team six games in front ofthe beaten opponents, Fielder remains a wary observer.The Mariners' annual $1.8 million take for allowing their parkto be called Safeco Field for 20 years is more than twice the feesthat corporations paid to put their names on Coors Field in Denver,Jacobs Field in Cleveland or KeyArena in Seattle.The Mariners thus will become the 11th major league baseballteam to play in a stadium with a corporate sponsor's name on it.Before 1990, no baseball teams played in a stadium with a corporatesponsor.
In just that short span, naming-rights fees have become anintegral component in financing hundreds of millions of dollars instadium construction around the country.In return, companies with naming rights deals enjoy years ofname marketability and publicity that has untold value on business,according to Brenner.When the 3Com telecommunications company purchased the namingrights to Candlestick Park in San Francisco five years ago for $4million, the company told Team Marketing Reports that its stocktrading volume went up and the number of qualified applicants forjobs also increased from other parts of the country.Safeco hopes to get similar national exposure from purchasingthe naming rights from the Mariners.
Company officials intend todraw comparisons between Safeco's insurance business and baseball.Dickey said Safeco, which also sponsors the Safeco Classic LPGAgolf tournament in Kent every year, researched the value of severalother naming-rights deals before entering into their agreement withthe Mariners.The wave of stadium naming-rights deals spread in the late 1980swith the Great Western Forum in Los Angeles, the Delta Center inSalt Lake City and ARCO Arena in Sacramento, followed by the UnitedCenter in Chicago and the Target Center in Minneapolis, allNational Basketball Association venues.
Now there are 18 NBA teamsplaying in arenas with naming rights sold to corporate or privatesponsors and 56 teams total in the NBA, major league baseball,National Football League and National Hockey League.In the Mariners' case, the money will help offset the minimum of$45 million that the team is obligated to pay as its share of the$417 million ballpark.
Over the 20-year life of the deal withSafeco, the Mariners will receive about $40 million for the namingrights when the annual figures are adjusted for inflation.Mariner president Chuck Armstrong noted the team already haspaid about $22.5 million of its share for stadium construction,which is just over half complete.The biggest naming-rights deal in the country is the $100million over 20 years that Staples Office Supply will pay forhaving its name affixed to the new Staples Center in Los Angeles.Brenner noted that the deal is so high because three professionalsports teams the Clippers and Lakers of the National BasketballAssociation and the Kings of the National Hockey League will playin the Staples Center.The figure for the new Mariners stadium is in the same ballparkwith the new Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco ($2.08 million ayear), the new Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix ($2.2 million) and theremodeled Edison International Field in Anaheim ($2.5 million).Those naming-rights deals all were consummated within the pastyear.Having the naming rights deal completed now allows the Marinersto fully market other lucrative areas of the new ballpark, inparticular the 79 corporate suites, 352 Diamond Club seats, 4,222Terrace Club and 966 charter seat licenses it hopes to sell beforethe new stadium opens in 1999.Questions about the M's deal had been circulating for the pastseveral months in meetings with the Public Facilities District, theagency set up to oversee construction and manage the moneycollected from taxes and other sources for the stadium.Armstrong acknowledged that the process might have seemedlaborious, but the team received more than two dozen inquiries frominterested companies.
That number then was winnowed down to aboutseven companies under serious consideration, but Armstrong declinedto disclose the runners-up.The main issue for the team, he said, was Safeco's strongpresence in the community and the fact that it is a nationalcompany with headquarters in Seattle.
Brenner also noted theimportance for a company with naming rights to have a strongpresence in the region of the facility.
Without that, the namemight face public resistance.One recent case in point is the negative reaction the Universityof Washington athletic department has received this week afterannouncing that it had effectively sold naming rights to theremodeled Hec Edmunson Pavilion to Seafirst Bank in a $9 millionsponsorship package.
Another case is the renaming of Jack MurphyStadium in San Diego (named after a longtime local sportswriter) toQualcomm Stadium for the Qualcomm communications company.DENVER Anyone who thinks that John Thomson's shutout of theDiamondbacks at Bank One Ballpark on April 1 was a fluke, betterthink again.He was perfect through 4 innings and went on to scatter fourhits and strike out a career-high 11 as Colorado (26-34) salvaged asplit of the four-game series with a 5-2 victory at Coors Field.It was the second-lowest hit total allowed by the Rockies staffat Coors Field.
It was the third straight victory for Thomson (5-5)and the third complete game of his career.For Diamondbacks shortstop Jay Bell, it was the best of timesand it was the worst of times.
He had the first hit off Thomson,breaking the shutout with a two-out home run (his eighth) to leftfield in the fifth inning, but also struck out twice.As good as Thomson's location was, he also got help from plateumpire Jim Quick, who had a liberal strike zone.
Particularlyagainst Diamondbacks rookie first baseman Travis Lee, who struckout three times.Finally, Diamondbacks hitting coach Jim Presley had had enough.He spoke more than volumes, barking at Quick from the dugout andgetting the thumb.
He came out of the dugout to complete hiscolorful diatribe before Showalter came out to escort him from thefield.It was the second time a Diamondback had been ejected thisseason.
Center fielder Devon White was tossed on April 3 againstSan Francisco for disagreeing with plate umpire Angel Hernandez onhis choice of strike calls.There were some pitches thrown by Diamondbacks left-hander OmarDaal that appeared to be in the same location as those fromThomson, in some cases better, but Quick's right hand remained athis side.Showalter said previously that umpires were testing Lee, butthey appeared to back off for a while.
They apparently have resumedtheir efforts.Daal (1-4) gave up single runs in the first, third and fourthinnings, then struck out five in a row.The Diamondbacks pulled within 3-2 in the sixth when KellyStinnett led off with a walk, was sacrificed to second by Daal andscored on a triple to right by Andy Fox.Taking a page out of the Larry Walker book from Wednesday nightand earlier Thursday night when he took extra bases on lethargicArizona outfielders, Fox stunned the Rockies' rocket-armed rightfielder by taking third base.A fly ball to left field by White was too shallow for Fox toscore and the throw by Dante Bichette was on the money.
Lee thentook a called third strike, which undoubtedly caused Presley'sblood to start boiling.Daal gave Bichette more than credit in the Rockies' half of thesixth.
He gave him a good pitch to hit.
Bichette hit a two-runhomer to left to make the score 5-2.
SALT LAKE CITY Madness has become a way of life, a fishbowl ofgroupies, microphones, leeches and distractions that would sink anyother outfit.Until Wednesday, it had never reached the basketball floor.
Butfor the first time since Michael Jordan climbed the mountain, theBulls show signs of cracking.After the Jazz squeezed out a victory in Game 1, fingers wereflying in all directions.
Jordan blamed Scottie Pippen for notknowing the play on a crucial 24-second violation.
He said LucLongley acted like a 6-foot-5 guard.
And in a snit of pretzellogic, Pippen was angry that Longley deflected a pass, therebydestroying his rhythm on an errant three-point shot that ended thegame.There were signs of doubt entering the Finals.
Strange wordsnever before heard from the defending champions.
Jordan said hecould handle his career ending in defeat.
Dennis Rodman said theBulls still would be winners even if they lose this series.
Pippentalked openly about being the underdog.
In sum, it sounded verymuch like reconciliation and resignation of the inevitable.But the most telling moment occurred Wednesday, when Jordanopenly berated Pippen for not passing him the ball .
. . after histeammate nailed a three-pointer to tie the score.
After the ensuingtimeout, Pippen rebelliously launched another three-pointer.On Thursday, a bleary-eyed Rodman made it to practice on timeand the Bulls were trying to heal themselves.
Jackson complainedthat newspapers seem to print unflattering pictures of the Bullscoach, so he smiled like a model, inviting a group photo shoot.
Andwhen asked whether Pippen took an ill-advised three-pointer late inthe game, Pippen stuck his head through a curtain.So Pippen and Jordan not only denied any bickering but laughedlike there wasn't a care in the world.The Bulls know another defeat in Game 2 could be fatal.
If theylose again, they would have to win four of five games.
Certainlypossible, except they've lost four of their past six.Still, this is group that always comes through in moments likethis, prevailing when they are most vulnerable, when the madnessbecomes a monsoon.
But it has to end sometime.Yes, it's been a long ride.
And a long time since the Bulls werein a predicament like this.
Dan Bickley can be reached at dan.bickley(at)pni.com.
SALT LAKE CITY While the Chicago Bulls snipe at each other,the Utah Jazz has remained all quiet on the Wasatch Front.And why not?
Despite getting subpar performances from two of itstop three players Karl Malone and Jeff Hornacek in Game 1, Utahleads the best-of-seven NBA Finals series, 1-0, going into Game 2tonight at the Delta Center.But the Jazz also knows that, to beat the Bulls, it's going toneed a lot more from Malone and Hornacek.
John Stockton carried theteam, especially down the stretch, in Game 1.Malone, who had a similarly poor performance in Game 1 of the1997 Finals, made only 9 of 25 shots this year.
He said he'll makea few minor adjustments but expects his shots to start falling.For Hornacek, who made only 2 10 shots, it's not so simple.First, he has to expend a lot of energy trying to guard Bulls starMichael Jordan.Second, Hornacek is not healthy, even if he insists that he is.Hornacek has had a chronically bad left knee, admitting that it hasbeen swelling off and on for the past seven seasons.
This season,he also has sore Achilles' tendons during the playoffs that havelimited his mobility and made it difficult for him to shoot hisjump shot with normal lift and rhythm.And Hornacek really started wondering whether he's star-crossedlast week.
With that 10-day respite, Hornacek not only had a rareopportunity to let his body rest, he also had a chance to get somework done around the house.
It turned out to be a bad idea.Hornacek took a dive, and and the ladder whacked him in thehead.
He needed a half-dozen stitches.Not as rough as the Bulls' start in this series, though.
Jordanscored 33 points and Scottie Pippen had 21, but neither shot theball well, and Pippen had five turnovers.
And the rest of the Bullswere mostly ineffective.
Forward Toni Kukoc made only 4 of 12shots.
Guard Ron Harper scored four points and had only one assistin 24 minutes.What happened after that 6-5 loss to Fresno State on March 18,the midpoint of the season, is why the Sun Devils will play for thenational title Saturday.ASU went 18-9 in the second half primarily because its offensekicked in gear.
The Sun Devils scored 199 runs in the first half,262 in the second.
They had 281 hits in the first, 330 in thesecond.Shortstop Michael Collins' batting average leaped from .206 atthe midway point to .287 at the end of the regular season.
CatcherJeremy Jones improved from .250 to .342; Moreno from .317 to .343;and Casey Myers from .328 to .389.In the series opener against California, Lowery allowed just twohits and struck out 12 in seven innings as ASU won, 6-1.Two days later, the Sun Devils rallied with six runs in theninth to beat the Bears, 7-6.No recent cosmic discovery has generated as much excitement inthe scientific community as Thursday's confirmation that neutrinosdo indeed have mass and that they oscillate from one state toanother as they stream by the trillions from cosmic rays, from thesun, from exploding stars known as supernovas, and from the decayof other particles that make up every nucleus of every atom thatexists.The eagerly awaited neutrino discoveries were announced Thursdayfrom Japan, where scientists from all over the world were gatheredto hear the news and to describe their own experiments hunting downthe elusive particles.Scientists have been trying to study the neutrinos that zipunscathed through Earth by capturing them in deep mines or creatingthem though violent nuclear collisions at some of the world'sbiggest atom-smashers.
They are so fantastically small, so nearly weightless and soelectrically neutral that trillions of them can zip through everyhuman body every day without being felt.
Even more of themconstantly stream unchanged through Earth without altering anything except, of course, when a few are trapped inside detectiondevices like the one in Japan.Filled with 121/2 tons of highly purified water and surroundedby 13,000 photomultiplier tubes and electronic data recorders, thechamber insulated from any possible interference by other nuclearparticles captured a few elusive neutrinos that had been createdby the interaction between cosmic rays and Earth's atmosphere.
Theexperiment then detected their oscillation rate from one state toanother as the changes yielded tiny flashes of radiant energy.To John G. Learned, a University of Hawaii physicist and memberof the research team, the results are virtually unprecedented andan extraordinary contribution to science's fundamental insightsinto the past and present of the universe.That theory, a concept first proposed by Albert Einstein andoften reiterated by British astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, seeksto find a single set of equations that can explain all thefundamental forces in the universe: gravity, electromagnetism, andthe strong and weak interactive forces among subnuclear particles.In that standard model, all those particles except the neutrinoshave mass, but now the model will have to be revised if the newdiscovery is validated.The Japanese experiment did not actually measure the mass of theneutrinos it detected, but instead it enabled the experimenters tocalculate the tiny difference between the mass of neutrinos in eachstate just as they oscillated to another state.As Learned explained it, those oscillations altered eachneutrino known as a muon neutrino into a new and different statecalled a tau neutrino.
At most the actual mass of each of thoseneutrino states was an almost infinitely small fraction of thetotal mass of an entire electron, the lightest of the traditionalfundamental particles.But at best, he said in an interview, only about 20 percent ofthe entire mass of the universe is made up of neutrinos, whilebarely 5 percent is the mass of ordinary matter we can see or touchor feel or observe through telescopes.
All the rest about 75percent of the mass of the universe must be cold and dark andwholly unknown so far, Silk said.The rookie first baseman twice was called out on a strikes byhome plate umpire Jim Quick on Thursday night.
Each time the thirdstrike appeared to be several inches off the plate.To his credit, Lee said nothing, continuing to show far moreresolve and cool-headedness than most 23-year-olds could display.Lee has got to be burning on the inside.
Somehow, he refuses toshow it on the outside.Which is exactly where one of baseball's most deep-seededproblems lies.
Players and staff cannot say anything disparagingabout an umpire for fear of suffering severe consequences.Hitting coach Jim Presley finally did say something when aseventh-inning pitch to Colorado's Greg Colbrunn was called a ball,even though it was practically in the exact location where Lee wasrung up.Presley's commentary came from the dugout, making it impossiblefor anyone at Coors Field to know anything was said.
Nonetheless,Quick, ejected Presley, who then jumped onto the field and let theveteran umpire know, face to face, what he thought of the strikezone.Talk frankly with anyone involved in the major leagues, and onecommon subject arises the lack of accountability of big-leagueumpires.Once a person becomes a major league umpire, it's the equivalentof being named a Supreme Court justice; if you want the job, it'syours for life.
Try to name the last umpire who was fired?Until American and National League Presidents Gene Budig and LenColeman, respectively, decide to truly take control of the umpiringthe charade will continue.Baseball is the only sport that does not use the merit system toreward its best officials for use in the playoffs, preferring touse a rotation basis where every umpire works the postseason oncehis turn comes up.The NBA selects its best referees for the playoffs.
The NBA alsogets rid of its two or three worst referees after every season,which alone should get every referee to be at his best every night.Players are not forbidden from criticizing umpires, but knowthat if they do, they can expect to be branded by the close-knitfraternity of umpires.In the NBA, a player can talk with a referee and even get this disagree in a civil manner without worrying about being ejected.Not so in baseball, where nearly every umpire views anydisagreement as a question of integrity.It's an age-old problem in baseball but one that seems to begetting worse with each season.
The gap between umpires andmanagers/players seems to be growing.Baseball needs to realize a real problem exists.
The leagues canmake a stand to take control of the umpiring.As it stands, the umpires union has won so many concessions fromMajor League Baseball that it is stronger than the leagues.
Thereis no way a sport's officials should have more control than theleague.If for no other reason than perception alone, the leagues shouldstrip away some of the power the umpires have.
Because the bestclubs advance past the regular season, the leagues should instill asystem where the best umpires work the playoffs.In addition, a system that sent the worst umpires back to theminors should be implemented.
That would get some of the lazyumpires to work as hard as they did when they first made it to themajors.After all, the big leagues are a place where the best playersstick around.
If Travis Lee goes into a swoon and cannot find hisswing, you can bet the Diamondbacks will send him to the minors.What would be the big problem with sending an umpire or two downif they aren't doing their job up to a major league standard?
Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail.
NORTH BERKELEY, Calif. From his study here, the Rev.
W. MarkRichardson sits amid the ivy-covered seminaries of the GraduateTheological Union, enjoying an inspiring view of the Campanile, thesymbolic center of the University of California.Richardson directs the Center for Theology and the NaturalSciences, which Sunday convenes a four-day conference wherephysicists, biologists, cosmologists and computer scientists fromaround the world will talk about finding the hand of God ineverything from the genetic code to the Big Bang.The conference, which runs through Wednesday at UC Berkeley'sWheeler Auditorium, was designed for scientists who are alsobelievers in one of the three Abrahamic faiths Judaism,Christianity and Islam.Peacocke, a theologian at the University of Oxford and a formergenetics researcher at UC Berkeley, has witnessed almostunimaginable advances in that field during the past four decades.At the same time, scientific breakthroughs like the mapping ofthe entire human genome pose new challenges for moral theologians.For example, what are the implications for church teachings onhomosexuality if scientists establish a genetic basis for sexualorientation?Another conference speaker, Dr. Carl Feit, worked as a researchscientist at the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Researchbefore accepting an appointment as a professor of health sciencesat Yeshiva University in New York, where Feit is free to mingle hisscientific research and Jewish faith.Feit cited a growing body of research showing that religiousfaith may strengthen the immune system and help the body fightdisease.Richardson did not invite Phillip Johnson, a law professor at UCBerkeley and an outspoken critic of evolutionary theory.
In aninterview, Johnson said the fuzzy mix of science and spiritualityat conferences like the upcoming Berkeley gathering produce neithergood science nor good theology.Johnson will have many more opportunities for debating thesefolks.
Last week, the John Templeton Foundation, which funded theconference, announced that it was giving another $12.6 million tothe Center for the Theology and the Natural Sciences to developprograms in science and religion at universities worldwide.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds ofcreatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's4.6-billion-year history.
Or at least there were that many beforehuman beings appeared very late in the game and began changing therules.At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rodsand filaments.
For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were allthe life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curvesince then.
From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,millions of species populate the world.The curve has not been a smooth one.
At least five times in thelast 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, likedrastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped outwhole families of organisms.
Such events have threatened to eraselife, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new anddifferent families.Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,single species winked out here and there to be replaced by newones.Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful aninfluence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it isperpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.If so, it is happening simply because people are actingnaturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for humanworks like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animalsaround the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a largernumber of less hardy ones.The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's humanpopulation, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling beforeleveling off in perhaps a century.The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology'spower to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth.
About 1.4million have been described and named, but biologists believe thereare at least 10 times that many.And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-dayextinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing thevariety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now callbiological diversity, or just biodiversity.Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds ofspecies.
It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.On one level, it is expressed by the number of geneticvariations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroythe wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt andsurvive in the long run.On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewilderingvariety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communitiesof plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level ofecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnectedsubunits, right down to the microscopic.
It is these interconnectedcommunities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety oflife, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.Why does this matter?
Conservationists and biologists offer anumber of answers.
On the practical level, wild species provide theraw material for medicine and food.
Who knows what undiscoveredplant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?Acting together, wild species support the human economy byproviding an array of services like water purification, soilformation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoorrecreation.On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Withouthumans, the biosphere would not miss a beat.
But without insectsand microbes, humans would disappear quickly.Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone specieshold everything together, and that if they are removed, the systemwill collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety ofplant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as manyspecies as possible.
They have their work cut out for them, sincethe catalogue of imperilment is long.In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biologicalvitality, an earlier assessment, by United States FederalGovernment scientists, found that vast stretches of the naturallandscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48states, had declined to the point of endangerment.This report, the first ever done on the state of health of thenation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some ofwhich dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, havebeen destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.Not even the trackless ocean is immune.
Overfishing has pushedsome marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water tostun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintainthe reef ecosystem.The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should notbe overinterpreted.
The recent red-listing of plants includes manysimply because they are rare.
While many may be vulnerable, humansdo not threaten them just yet.On the action front, there are bright spots.
Over the lastcentury, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stemthe human assault on nature.In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not includingthe United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments toprotect plant and animal species.But victories are scattered or overturned.
Recently, a federalcourt, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restorationproject, and a legal battle is under way.The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathedto Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can beused to save diversity as well as destroy it.It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds ofcreatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's4.6-billion-year history.
Or at least there were that many beforehuman beings appeared very late in the game and began changing therules.At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rodsand filaments.
For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were allthe life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curvesince then.
From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,millions of species populate the world.The curve has not been a smooth one.
At least five times in thelast 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, likedrastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped outwhole families of organisms.
Such events have threatened to eraselife, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new anddifferent families.Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,single species winked out here and there to be replaced by newones.Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful aninfluence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it isperpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.If so, it is happening simply because people are actingnaturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for humanworks like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animalsaround the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a largernumber of less hardy ones.The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's humanpopulation, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling beforeleveling off in perhaps a century.The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology'spower to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth.
About 1.4million have been described and named, but biologists believe thereare at least 10 times that many.And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-dayextinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing thevariety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now callbiological diversity, or just biodiversity.Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds ofspecies.
It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.On one level, it is expressed by the number of geneticvariations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroythe wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt andsurvive in the long run.On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewilderingvariety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communitiesof plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level ofecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnectedsubunits, right down to the microscopic.
It is these interconnectedcommunities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety oflife, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.Why does this matter?
Conservationists and biologists offer anumber of answers.
On the practical level, wild species provide theraw material for medicine and food.
Who knows what undiscoveredplant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?Acting together, wild species support the human economy byproviding an array of services like water purification, soilformation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoorrecreation.On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Withouthumans, the biosphere would not miss a beat.
But without insectsand microbes, humans would disappear quickly.Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone specieshold everything together, and that if they are removed, the systemwill collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety ofplant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as manyspecies as possible.
They have their work cut out for them, sincethe catalogue of imperilment is long.In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biologicalvitality, an earlier assessment, by United States FederalGovernment scientists, found that vast stretches of the naturallandscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48states, had declined to the point of endangerment.This report, the first ever done on the state of health of thenation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some ofwhich dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, havebeen destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.Not even the trackless ocean is immune.
Overfishing has pushedsome marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water tostun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintainthe reef ecosystem.The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should notbe overinterpreted.
The recent red-listing of plants includes manysimply because they are rare.
While many may be vulnerable, humansdo not threaten them just yet.On the action front, there are bright spots.
Over the lastcentury, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stemthe human assault on nature.In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not includingthe United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments toprotect plant and animal species.But victories are scattered or overturned.
Recently, a federalcourt, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restorationproject, and a legal battle is under way.The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathedto Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can beused to save diversity as well as destroy it.WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates ofsaving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on thebrink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authorityfrom building the $137 million Tellico Dam.That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntaryplan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acresof rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during whichdevelopment of the land will be allowed to continue.These cases are strikingly different manifestations of theEndangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almostresembles a new species itself.In the old days, the law was mostly used to block developmentand preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious andsubtler, as the government and landowners design management plansto protect habitats of many species across large tracts of privateland, but at the same time not block development.This is a fundamental change in how the law should work.
It alsoreflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aimis to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and notjust one imperiled species after another.That cannot be done without the involvement of privatelandowners.
So Congress and the Clinton administration are tryingto give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation'sbiological diversity.HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowneradopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the lawstrictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop someproperty even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in theprocess.A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched toprotect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and topreserve natural corridors for animals.
Otherwise, homes can bebuilt, sewers trenched and driveways paved.In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;hundreds of more are coming.
And their size is increasing fromfewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds ofthousands of acres in recent cases.The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property ownersand provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on theirland.The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements forhelping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species.
But it is anapproach that creates suspicion and even hostility among someenvironmentalists and conservation biologists.The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includespermission to harm some of the species or habitat duringdevelopment a so-called incidental take permit that thegovernment will place no additional restrictions on how the land isused during the plan's life, usually several decades.But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that natureis full of surprises.The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by theRepublican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.Kempthorne of Idaho.The administration supports the bill, as do many SenateDemocrats.
But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to theSenate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay thegovernment's costs in the future, when surprises arise andno-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay thesecosts by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused animmediate uproar among conservation advocates.Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthornebill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative GeorgeMiller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered speciescan actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat forthem and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjournsfor the November elections appear dim.The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembledscientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of itsOregon property.Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex planfor species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of thecentral Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there areabout 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, includingmarbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrinefalcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canadageese and Oregon chubs.But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allowsWeyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species duringlogging operations, the company agrees to accept detailedprescriptions on how to manage the logging.Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced toseedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings andsaplings combined.The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behindsnags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said thatthe plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribedtemperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forestleft to shade the streams.
But that is not enough to satisfy somecritics.WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates ofsaving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on thebrink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authorityfrom building the $137 million Tellico Dam.That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntaryplan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acresof rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during whichdevelopment of the land will be allowed to continue.These cases are strikingly different manifestations of theEndangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almostresembles a new species itself.In the old days, the law was mostly used to block developmentand preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious andsubtler, as the government and landowners design management plansto protect habitats of many species across large tracts of privateland, but at the same time not block development.This is a fundamental change in how the law should work.
It alsoreflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aimis to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and notjust one imperiled species after another.That cannot be done without the involvement of privatelandowners.
So Congress and the Clinton administration are tryingto give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation'sbiological diversity.HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowneradopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the lawstrictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop someproperty even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in theprocess.A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched toprotect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and topreserve natural corridors for animals.
Otherwise, homes can bebuilt, sewers trenched and driveways paved.In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;hundreds of more are coming.
And their size is increasing fromfewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds ofthousands of acres in recent cases.The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property ownersand provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on theirland.The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements forhelping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species.
But it is anapproach that creates suspicion and even hostility among someenvironmentalists and conservation biologists.The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includespermission to harm some of the species or habitat duringdevelopment a so-called incidental take permit that thegovernment will place no additional restrictions on how the land isused during the plan's life, usually several decades.But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that natureis full of surprises.The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by theRepublican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.Kempthorne of Idaho.The administration supports the bill, as do many SenateDemocrats.
But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to theSenate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay thegovernment's costs in the future, when surprises arise andno-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay thesecosts by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused animmediate uproar among conservation advocates.Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthornebill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative GeorgeMiller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered speciescan actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat forthem and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjournsfor the November elections appear dim.The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembledscientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of itsOregon property.Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex planfor species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of thecentral Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there areabout 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, includingmarbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrinefalcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canadageese and Oregon chubs.But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allowsWeyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species duringlogging operations, the company agrees to accept detailedprescriptions on how to manage the logging.Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced toseedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings andsaplings combined.The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behindsnags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said thatthe plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribedtemperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forestleft to shade the streams.
But that is not enough to satisfy somecritics.THOMPSONVILLE, Mich.
I Finally understood why Adam was soenticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time throughour orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.More than 100 apple trees some gnarled and thick at the trunklike an old ash, others mere saplings stood scattered on a sandyridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from thelimbs in a wondrous display of variety and color.
Big, red roundapples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and theyhad a light, candy taste.There were large green apples, a kind that had probably beenstored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.And there were smaller green apples with brown patches thatmight have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popularin northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modernagriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by thenumber of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets inthe towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that theabundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowingsupply of wild and domestic plant genes.For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak productionmake up the bulk of the world's rice harvest.
Meanwhile,irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice togrow in harsh conditions have disappeared.The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,tomatoes and most other major food plants.
Homogenization in themarket is one result.
Hunger can be another.
The Irish potatofamine was caused by a plant disease that raced through cropscontaining no genetic resistance.As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards inManistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about theplace we had just bought and who had preceded us.Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-storyhome for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of appletrees in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope ofthe widest ridge on his land.During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouragedto spread seeds and see what came up.
Hier almost surely followedthe protocol, as did his neighbors.Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drainedsoils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, hadalready distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation'sprime fruit-growing areas.By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest andwestern Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties ofapples, authorities say.
Among the old favorites, some of themrecognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure whiteto the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden'sBlush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pinkpatch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and GoldenRusset, with skin the color of brown sugar.Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the numberof varieties, concluding there were at least 14.It was not a simple task.
The old trees that Hier had plantedwere mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up aroundthem.
Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when hedied in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds.
Youngfruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 millionapple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the marketsoffer paltry pickings.
Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh areMichigan's big three.
Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grownwidely for use in pies and to make cider.Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducingunfamiliar varieties.
Production costs are too high and profitmargins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test anunknown is too big a leap for most growers.Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of themodern tomato.
Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasmrepository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from theCaspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called centerof diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticultureat the University of Minnesota.Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties inthe world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the nextcentury.At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in thelast century.
In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look asif they are covered in snow.In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them toSwanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the mostdelicious tart cider.We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten themstraight from the trees and stored some of the harder green onesinto the winter.Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a globalsolution.
But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasuresthat are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhereelse.THOMPSONVILLE, Mich.
I Finally understood why Adam was soenticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time throughour orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.More than 100 apple trees some gnarled and thick at the trunklike an old ash, others mere saplings stood scattered on a sandyridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from thelimbs in a wondrous display of variety and color.
Big, red roundapples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and theyhad a light, candy taste.There were large green apples, a kind that had probably beenstored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.And there were smaller green apples with brown patches thatmight have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popularin northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modernagriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by thenumber of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets inthe towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that theabundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowingsupply of wild and domestic plant genes.For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak productionmake up the bulk of the world's rice harvest.
Meanwhile,irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice togrow in harsh conditions have disappeared.The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,tomatoes and most other major food plants.
Homogenization in themarket is one result.
Hunger can be another.
The Irish potatofamine was caused by a plant disease that raced through cropscontaining no genetic resistance.As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards inManistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about theplace we had just bought and who had preceded us.Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-storyhome for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of appletrees in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope ofthe widest ridge on his land.During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouragedto spread seeds and see what came up.
Hier almost surely followedthe protocol, as did his neighbors.Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drainedsoils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, hadalready distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation'sprime fruit-growing areas.By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest andwestern Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties ofapples, authorities say.
Among the old favorites, some of themrecognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure whiteto the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden'sBlush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pinkpatch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and GoldenRusset, with skin the color of brown sugar.Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the numberof varieties, concluding there were at least 14.It was not a simple task.
The old trees that Hier had plantedwere mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up aroundthem.
Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when hedied in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds.
Youngfruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 millionapple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the marketsoffer paltry pickings.
Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh areMichigan's big three.
Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grownwidely for use in pies and to make cider.Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducingunfamiliar varieties.
Production costs are too high and profitmargins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test anunknown is too big a leap for most growers.Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of themodern tomato.
Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasmrepository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from theCaspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called centerof diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticultureat the University of Minnesota.Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties inthe world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the nextcentury.At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in thelast century.
In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look asif they are covered in snow.In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them toSwanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the mostdelicious tart cider.We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten themstraight from the trees and stored some of the harder green onesinto the winter.Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a globalsolution.
But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasuresthat are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhereelse.Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Gardeneagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to beone of only seven known remaining specimens of Attaleacrassispatha, a very rare palm tree.To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers andsoaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing.
But to the farmerabout to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand hissparse field of stunted corn stalks.A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one ofthe botanists.
With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried hisbest to persuade the farmer to change his mind.Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was aturning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts topreserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,but must be grounded in reality.Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservationto fit the audience.In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment forseeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans.
Thefarmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreelstories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangeredspecies around the world.In every field of study, parables have emerged to justifypreservation.
Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancerdrug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicalsextracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, thatare now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff frommaintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, likethe pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of ahealthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays ofbeetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics.
His record isabout 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru just beetles, justone tree.Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystemis as critical as the benefits of preserving it.As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, thestructure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals ismore likely to collapse.
And when humans invade and transformlandscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas aremore likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic valuesthat lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treadinglightly on the Earth.One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist atthe Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiledreptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles ofrain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named theresident species, let alone understood their relationships orpossible value.But these are the arguments that are least useful on the groundin the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.There are ways to make a case for preservation based on localeconomics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plantsare still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or onplantations.Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potentialthreat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plantpreserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 suchpreserves.Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure thata species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing fora while.
It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick toHaiti.Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left thespecies essentially extinct.Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Gardeneagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to beone of only seven known remaining specimens of Attaleacrassispatha, a very rare palm tree.To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers andsoaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing.
But to the farmerabout to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand hissparse field of stunted corn stalks.A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one ofthe botanists.
With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried hisbest to persuade the farmer to change his mind.Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was aturning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts topreserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,but must be grounded in reality.Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservationto fit the audience.In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment forseeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans.
Thefarmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreelstories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangeredspecies around the world.In every field of study, parables have emerged to justifypreservation.
Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancerdrug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicalsextracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, thatare now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff frommaintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, likethe pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of ahealthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays ofbeetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics.
His record isabout 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru just beetles, justone tree.Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystemis as critical as the benefits of preserving it.As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, thestructure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals ismore likely to collapse.
And when humans invade and transformlandscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas aremore likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic valuesthat lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treadinglightly on the Earth.One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist atthe Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiledreptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles ofrain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named theresident species, let alone understood their relationships orpossible value.But these are the arguments that are least useful on the groundin the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.There are ways to make a case for preservation based on localeconomics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plantsare still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or onplantations.Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potentialthreat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plantpreserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 suchpreserves.Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure thata species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing fora while.
It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick toHaiti.Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left thespecies essentially extinct.In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphraseYosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugscomes from plants.
And biotechnology companies are eager to gainaccess to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plantand animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning thatbiodiversity is not going to pay for itself.
The creation ofproperty rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role inprotecting endangered habitats.Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys toeverything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests.
Why,then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valuedaccordingly?What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity.
And while there may bemillions of potentially useful species, there is also vastbiochemical redundancy in the environment.
Thus the value of anyacre is limited by the fact that an identical species probablygrows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the usefulchemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea containcaffeine as a defense against predators.
And where naturallyoccurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking forthem is offset by the high cost of such a task.Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues atResources for the Future, estimated the potential value ofpreservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world.
Andwhile their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating fromuseful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost ofdeveloping drugs from them they are deliberately designed to erron the high side.Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospectingrights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre inwestern Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 centsan acre in the eastern Himalayas.
That may be enough to justifybiosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses likegrazing or gathering firewood.That said, what can economists contribute to the debate?
Forone, they can help a society sort through its priorities by lookingat what people are willing to pay to support those values.
Theevidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflectsonly the narrowest of concerns.In research to be published this summer in the Journal ofEconomic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvardcolleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United StatesFish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebratespecies that are listed as endangered.You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of aspecies would increase its standing.
So ought the probability thatintervention would preserve the species.
Last but hardly least iscost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resourcesneeded to keep the species intact.In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the moreendangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms ofdislocating economic activities, the higher the priority thespecies gets.What seems to count most in determining spending priorities aresize (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potentialdisappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animalsthat help knit healthy ecosystems.
But the focus on fur balls mayor may not bother taxpayers.Economists have no business telling people what they shouldvalue, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on thesubject of rationality.If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help makethe cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bangfor a buck.
And they can help people to think seriously about howto provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphraseYosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugscomes from plants.
And biotechnology companies are eager to gainaccess to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plantand animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning thatbiodiversity is not going to pay for itself.
The creation ofproperty rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role inprotecting endangered habitats.Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys toeverything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests.
Why,then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valuedaccordingly?What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity.
And while there may bemillions of potentially useful species, there is also vastbiochemical redundancy in the environment.
Thus the value of anyacre is limited by the fact that an identical species probablygrows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the usefulchemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea containcaffeine as a defense against predators.
And where naturallyoccurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking forthem is offset by the high cost of such a task.Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues atResources for the Future, estimated the potential value ofpreservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world.
Andwhile their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating fromuseful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost ofdeveloping drugs from them they are deliberately designed to erron the high side.Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospectingrights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre inwestern Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 centsan acre in the eastern Himalayas.
That may be enough to justifybiosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses likegrazing or gathering firewood.That said, what can economists contribute to the debate?
Forone, they can help a society sort through its priorities by lookingat what people are willing to pay to support those values.
Theevidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflectsonly the narrowest of concerns.In research to be published this summer in the Journal ofEconomic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvardcolleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United StatesFish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebratespecies that are listed as endangered.You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of aspecies would increase its standing.
So ought the probability thatintervention would preserve the species.
Last but hardly least iscost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resourcesneeded to keep the species intact.In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the moreendangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms ofdislocating economic activities, the higher the priority thespecies gets.What seems to count most in determining spending priorities aresize (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potentialdisappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animalsthat help knit healthy ecosystems.
But the focus on fur balls mayor may not bother taxpayers.Economists have no business telling people what they shouldvalue, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on thesubject of rationality.If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help makethe cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bangfor a buck.
And they can help people to think seriously about howto provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.CALIF-POLITICS (Berkeley, Calif.) As the dust settles from theDemocratic gubernatorial primary, we Californians shouldcongratulate ourselves on finally learning not to be duped bytelevision candidates.
By MICHAEL SIGNER.NY-LTGOV (New York) Mary Donohue, the former prosecutor andjudge, cast herself as a compassionate and loyal sidekick, alieutenant governor who is willing to follow, not lead.
She isrunning with Gov.
George Pataki.
By TRACEY TULLY.BODY-COUNT (Albany, N.Y.) Dr. Michael Baden has conducted20,000 autopsies in his career.
But Baden is best known for being akey figure in examining some of the most spectacular deaths of thisand other generations John F. Kennedy, civil rights leaders Dr.Martin Luther King Jr. and Medgar Evers, comedian John Belushi andCzar Nicholas of Russia.
By MARK McGUIRE.
(For release Sunday, June7)WOMEN-CLIMBERS (Tiburon, Calif.) Nancy Knoble will head athree-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,the tallest mountain in North America.
She's leading a particularlyresolute band of 12 five are breast cancer survivors, and theremaining climbers are young women determined to defeat the diseasethat afflicts one in eight women.
By ELIZABETH FERNANDEZ.MEDAL-OF-HONOR (Albany, N.Y.) Behind nearly every Medal ofHonor is a gripping story of the valor that earned this nation'shighest award.
But in its own right, the Medal of Honor itself hasa storied past in its rise to what is now considered the world'smost prestigious decoration.
By BRENDAN LYONS.TRANSSEXUAL-COP (San Francisco) A transsexual trying to joinSan Francisco's police force has filed a $3 million discriminationclaim with the city after her appeal of a failed psychological testwas turned down.
By RAY DELGADO.AIRPORT-EXPANSION (San Francisco) Kicking off what is likelyto become an environmental war over the sanctity of mud, the SanFrancisco International Airport has announced it will seek toexpand its runways a job that could entail filling a majorportion of the Bay for the first time in 35 years.
By ERINMcCORMICK.COMPUTER-COLUMN (Atlanta) Each year at the ElectronicEntertainment Expo, better known as E3, there is some easilydefined trend, something that a journalist looking for a snappylead paragraph or pithy sound bite could latch onto.
This time,though, E3 was about evolution instead of revolution.
And it's thecomputer and video game industry that's evolving by growing up.
ByDWIGHT SILVERMANEMPLOYMENT-QUESTIONS (San Francisco) A security firm thatasked job applicants a series of questions probing their politicalbeliefs settled a class-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million,potentially changing the way employers around the nation screen jobcandidates.
By RAY DELGADO.BBA-FEUD (San Francisco) American League president Gene Budigwill take a break from his usual regimen of signing baseballs andgetting into ballparks for free to hand out enormous suspensions,fines and other spankings to both the Kansas City Royals andAnaheim Angels for their beanball war.
By RAY RATTO.You should know the identity of anybody who would do somethingso unspeakably vile.
I can't even describe to you in detail eitherthe images he created or the words he used.But he's only 17, and his grandfather called me in tears,begging me not to name him.
And, given the fact that no crime hasbeen committed and that none of the kid's victims has been leftdead or bleeding, I hadn't planned on naming the kid anyway.So, let's just call him Beavis although, once you hear this,you'll realize what a slur that is on that repugnant cartooncharacter.
Compared to this kid, Beavis and Butt-head come off likeWally and the Beav.I will name the school district, however.
That's North Colonie,an upscale suburban district just outside New York's state capital.One district official I spoke to seemed horrified that anybody inthe public you know, like the taxpayers who pay the bills mightlearn that something like this can happen in a classy school likeShaker High.Our young friend Beavis is computer literate, so his problemseems to be something other than stupidity.
He is, according to hisgrandfather, quite sensitive and easily wounded.
Apparently, itdoesn't occur to him that other people can be wounded, too.
Or,more likely, he doesn't much care.Beavis had several of the girls bragging about sex withteachers, about getting pregnant and having abortions, about theiraffection for exotic sex acts.
Thoughtfully, he also included theire-mail addresses.The girls found out about it, of course.
So did the school.
Thedistrict saw it as sexual harassment.
The kid was suspended forfive days.
The district is considering more action against him, butit has no authority to expel him from school.In the perpetually benevolent state of New York, expulsion fromschool doesn't exist.
Every New York citizen is guaranteed a freepublic education until age 21, regardless of behavior.
By law, themaximum suspension lasts only a year, and the kid gets privatetutoring at public expense.The cops did pay Beavis a visit.
They did their best to scarethe hell out of him, but there's nothing they can really do to him.If the kid had sent this material directly to the girls, that wouldhave constituted aggravated harassment.
But sending false,defamatory filth out to the universe via the Internet violates nocriminal law of the State of New York.What Beavis did, however, does seem to constitute libel.
That'saccording to my home newspaper's hot-shot First Amendment lawyer,Mike (The Hammer) Grygiel.
So, the girls could sue the kid and takeeverything he has.
Given his age, that's probably not much.But if some jury awarded the mud-splattered girls nothing morethan Beavis' computer and his collection of dirty pictures, they'dbe doing humanity an enormous favor.Water managers and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have crafteda $7.5 billion plan for creating a healthier, more naturalEverglades while expanding South and Central Florida's water supplyduring the next half-century.But even supporters acknowledged that the blueprint needs a lotof work before they can present it to Congress next summer.The plan would be the linchpin of what water managers call thelargest, most complex ecological restoration ever.
Yet it facesskepticism from some state and federal scientists, who say the planwould go too far in serving farms and cities without fullyrestoring the Everglades' natural flow.The price tag, based on the project's first detailed costrundown, is considerably higher than the corps' earlier estimatesof $3 billion to $5 billion.
As a comparison, $7 billion is thestate's annual Medicaid budget to provide medical care for 1.3million people.If Congress approves the plan, corps officials expect thefederal government to pay half the bill during the next 20 to 50years.
The rest would come from some undetermined mix of state,county, municipal and regional sources, which could includeproperty taxes or surcharges on water bills.Environmentalists still are studying whether the proposal woulddo all they hope.
They say the region's future depends on theplan's central concept, an overhaul of the 1,600-mile-long drainagenetwork that the corps built after World War II.Corps ecosystem restoration chief Stuart Appelbaum(cq) said theproposal would provide the tools for helping both humans andnature.
His agency and others will try in coming weeks to make iteven better for the Everglades and waterways such as the St. LucieRiver.Further changes would come during the next 20 years as the corpsand the South Florida Water Management District start building andoperating the project.The proposal would rely on a vast network of reservoirs, storagewells and marshes.
That labyrinth would occupy 286 square miles equivalent to 8 1/2 Manhattans while storing enough water to fillPro Player Stadium more than 1,300 times.The extra water would help feed the faucets, toilets, swimmingpools and lawn sprinklers of a 16-county region where thepopulation is expected to more than double to 12 million by theyear 2050.Engineers say the water also would allow the reflooding ofparched stretches of the Everglades when the park needs it.
Thestorage capacity would provide a place to put unneeded water duringgluts, rather than dumping them into the Everglades or LakeOkeechobee and wreaking havoc on wildlife.But scientists at Everglades National Park and the state Gameand Fresh Water Fish Commission said the plan still would leavelarge areas of marsh with too much or too little water.
Parkscientists said the proposal also would rely too little on naturalflow and too much on pumps, canals and floodgates, and would givethe most reliable water sources to cities and suburbs.But water district biologist John Ogden said the plan would aida wide variety of wildlife.
For instance, it would add months tothe nesting season for wood storks and other wading birds, whosenumbers have declined by 90 percent in recent decades.Public water utility directors and state agriculture officialswere happier than environmentalists with the plan's assurances thatthey would have enough water most of the time.
But sugar growerssouth of Lake Okeechobee vehemently object to a provision thatwould use 94 square miles of their cane fields for some of theproposed reservoirs.Likewise, utility officials question the proposal's reliance onvast underground storage wells, a technology that no one has everused on such a scale.QuickReadCongress has ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineersto come up with a plan to restore the Everglades by overhauling thedrainage system of South and Central Florida.
A $7.5 billionproposal would accomplish these steps during the next 20 to 50years:Store more water: Engineers would build 286 square miles ofreservoirs and filter marshes on all sides of Lake Okeechobee andalong the Everglades' eastern fringes.
They could store as much as467 billion gallons that otherwise would flow out to sea.Try new technology: Hundreds of storage wells could trap 1.7billion gallons a day underground during rainy years, then give itback during droughts.
The average yearly yield could be 130 billiongallons.Go with the flow: The corps would bulldoze some interiorEverglades canals and levees to return some of the natural,broad-flowing sheets of water to its marshes.What's next: The corps and the South Florida Water ManagementDistrict expect to unveil a revised proposal in mid-October, holdpublic hearings in November and submit a final version to Congressby July 1, 1999.
Want to learn more?
The corps' proposal, studiesand other documents are on the World Wide Web athttp://www.restudy.orgHopes for a reunion between Barbara Kurth and the daughterstaken from her in 1979 appeared dim Thursday as the kidnap sagainvolving her ex-husband Stephen Fagan played out on nationaltelevision for the second night in a row.One night after Fagan blasted her on ABC's Prime Time Live as adrunkard who had endangered their daughters' lives, Kurth defendedherself on CNN's Larry King Live.
The back-to-back interviews shedlittle new light, but turned up the heat in a case that has drawnnational attention since Fagan's April 16 arrest at his Palm Beachmansion on 18 1/2-year-old Massachusetts kidnap charges.Fagan said he spirited the girls to Florida and changed theiridentities to rescue them from Kurth.
He points to affidavits fromthree of her neighbors at the time who said she neglected the girlsand often appeared drunk.
Fagan also cites two driving under theinfluence convictions against Kurth from 1979 as evidence of adrinking problem.On Prime Time Live Wednesday, the daughters, now 23 and 21 andsupportive of their father, criticized Kurth for not reaching outto them privately.Kurth said Fagan had poisoned the daughters against her andwouldn't allow them to talk to their mother.
But Fagan's currentwife, Harriet Martin, said Thursday that Fagan hasn't tried toblock a reunion.Senior Pastor Jack Humbert and Rob Brandon, owner of BNIEnterprises, have prepared a script and overseen rehearsals.
Withshowtime approaching, the duo is dreaming of how their venturecould shape this community's image for years to come.Humbert expects to sell all 650 tickets available at $12.50each, and he is confident one of four cable networks that haveshown interest in a 13-episode package will pick up the gospelmusic show.
He won't reveal the names of the networks for fear ofjeopardizing negotiations but said they are based in Texas,California, Florida and Nashville.Charles Gates, a gospel music promoter who lives in Austin, saidthe program could succeed here if done correctly.Brandon, a music promoter, shares Humbert's vision and energyfor the project, even though he has a limited religious background.He said he hopes the television production will help raise moneyto complete an 1,100-seat football stadium for the private schoolnext door.
A lighted baseball and softball complex also areenvisioned for Hilltop Christian Academy, and Humbert said he wantseventually to build assisted-living homes on the 40-acre campus.It's all part of a master plan that began 20 years ago when he lefthis executive office in a Chicago skyscraper to build a church onthe hill along U.S. 183 overlooking Cedar Park.A neighbor described Kip Kinkel as an all-American kid, and byappearances it was so: close-cropped red hair and freckles, rightoff a cereal box.
But the day witnesses said he shot 51 rounds intoa crowded school cafeteria, he also was an accused felon.It was the home where investigators would find Kinkel's deadparents, and five bombs that the boy had stashed to protect himselffrom the monsters under his bed.Yes, it was more serious than it seemed when police inSpringfield, Ore., released Kinkel to his parents' custody afterarresting him at school for buying a stolen handgun from aclassmate.Horrible carnage aside, one of the scariest circumstances inthis tale is the matter-of-fact disposition of what is, or shouldbe, a most serious crime carrying a gun on a school campus.In Kinkel's case it was two crimes, possession and theft byreceiving.
And yet he went home.
I'm trying to imagine an adultoffender who, having been charged with two felonies, could expectto be home by dinner.This brings up the fact that many rural counties don't even havejuvenile detention centers.
(That wasn't a factor in the Kinkelcase.
Springfield had that option available for him.)
In too manycases, because those counties can't afford juvenile detention sitesor can't find a place to have offenders detained, kids like Kip gohome.Currently a bill in Congress seeks to put an imprint on juvenilejustice that sounds tough but would backfire.
One controversialingredient would allow local governments to house young offendersin jails, abolishing a standard that for 24 years has kept youngoffenders and older ones apart.This is portrayed as a get-serious approach to juvenile crime.Actually it is an incentive for local governments to keep doingthings as cheaply as possible and to not make needed investments injuvenile detention, probation and counseling.What would happen in such a tightwad community in the case ofKip Kinkel?
Sure, you want to be tough with serious, hardenedjuvenile offenders.
But you'd be reluctant to put a first-timer, anAll-American, freckle-faced kid with good parents, behind jailhousebars.These columns for release the weekend of Saturday, June 6, 1998,are moving today to clients of the New York Times News Service.All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category.
If youhave questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox NewsService, at 404-526-5456.GLASS-COLUMN WASHINGTON Regarding India, George Tenet, thenation's spy chief, told the Senate Intelligence Committee that hewould try to do better.
One way to start is to have some of thefolks who deal with the region, home to a fifth of the world'speople, bookmark the Times of India newspaper on their Internetbrowsers.
(Glass, Cox News Service) MOVED.TEEPEN-COLUMN Nazi gold, more than 50 years after World War IIand the Holocaust ended, remains molten.
It burns the conscience.Swiss culpability is no longer at serious issue.
Swiss honor andjustice very much are.
(Teepen, Cox News Service) MOVED THURSDAY.KLEINBERG-COLUMN If all the tax money garnered from cigarettesales went to cancer research and why don't they do that?
thetobacco people still would find some other approach to blow smokein your face.
(Kleinberg, Cox News Service) MOVED THURSDAY.MURRAY-COLUMN Reader mail, plus a joke: What do you get whenyou mix Viagra with Rogaine?
For answer, see column.
(Murray, CoxNews Service)YOUNG-COLUMN What would happen in a tightwad community in thecase of Kip Kinkel?
Sure, you want to be tough with serious,hardened juvenile offenders.
But you'd be reluctant to put afirst-timer, an All-American, freckle-faced kid with good parents,behind jailhouse bars.
And so you wouldn't.
Until he sprayed aschool cafeteria with bullets.
(Young, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.These feature stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York TimesNews Service.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.BLACKWHITE On June 13, Joel Bethea and Kelvin Lawrence willcelebrate their high school graduations.
They admit it wasn'talways easy being a white face in a black crowd or vice versa.
Butthey didn't just survive their four years of high school, theythrived.
(Harrison, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3.TRAVEL-RANCH Most of us end up driving across the country atleast once in our lives, and that usually means driving throughTexas which often means driving through its Panhandle, of whichAmarillo is the capital.
There're a number of uncommon sights tosee on your way through here.
But there's an even moreextraordinary set of sights to break up this endlessly ordinaryterrain: Stanley Marsh's outdoor art.
(Jubera, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3.
EMBARGOED UNTIL 6/7.TRAVEL-RANCHTOUR If you're driving through the TexasPanhandle, here's a rundown of what you can see: (list follows).
(Jubera, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/3.
EMBARGOED UNTIL6/7.EVERGLADE-CONSERVATION Water managers and the U.S. Army Corpsof Engineers have crafted a $7.5 billion plan for creating ahealthier, more natural Everglades while expanding South andCentral Florida's water supply during the next half-century.
Buteven supporters acknowledged that the blueprint needs a lot of workbefore they can present it to Congress next summer.
(King, PalmBeach Post) MOVED.We are fortunate enough to have this gift of love which is likea precious plant.
One just can't accept it, leave it, and thinkit's going to grow by itself.
Even after 50 years we must keepwatering it, to look after it, and nurture it.
This I know we willdo.I found Weeks' words in a note I opened last May as I sortedthrough the hundreds of letters submitted in conjunction with ourannual Mother of the Year contest.Weeks, 71, of Washington Twp.
is an engineer who worked 46 yearsfor NCR in Dayton before he retired in 1989.To his day , June 5, 1998, is the 50th anniversary of themarriage of Don Weeks, and his wife, Virginia, who is 70.
So thisis an appropriate day to put a spotlight on them.Mrs.
Weeks said she is not at all surprised that her husband'swords are imaginative, sensitive and somewhat poetic.The Weeks have two grown children, both married.
A daughter inBeavercreek has two children and their son in Canada has fourchildren , the youngest of them 13-year-old twins .The family plans to have a reunion in July to celebrate theWeeks' 50th anniversary.
But Don also plans to take his bride todinner.
He said he plans to read some thoughts to her, doing itquietly so other diners won't be disturbed.I love you: For being a terrific wife and a wonderful motherwhen it hasn't been easy.
For helping, supporting, and taking careof me when such was sorely needed.
For creating and keeping animmaculate, warm and cheerful home.
And for the fanatistic life wehave had.He plans to close out with the sentiment, Virginia, I pray wehave many more happy years together.
It is with these thoughts Iextend my love to you, on this, one of the greatest days of mylife.
Happy 50th Wedding Anniversary.
With all my love, Don.Written on the white paper was the name of a former altar boyfrom Boynton Beach who was struggling to overcome the torment ofhis childhood.The money was left by Rev.
J. Keith Symons, bishop of the PalmBeach Diocese.
He told the troubled man's family it came from hisheart and out of his pocket.
The parents told him another priesthad assaulted their son, and Symons said he wanted to help.As Symons was making the weekly payments, the mother's two sons,now in their 30s, were giving prosecutors sworn statements in alurid sexual molestation case in St. Petersburg.Rev.
Rocco Charles D'Angelo was being accused by five formeraltar boys of assaulting them in the 1960s and 1970s.
The boys saidin court papers D'Angelo abused them while he was at St. Mark'sChurch in Boynton Beach.
Records show D'Angelo admitted being amolester, sometimes assaulting boys while wearing his priestlyvestments.Symons was the chancellor of the St. Petersburg diocese from1971-81 when D'Angelo was moved there from Miami.
Symons was thekeeper of the paperwork, the official church records.
He was theadministrator who admitted receiving a letter describing D'Angelo'shistory as a pedophile in South Florida.Joseph Divito, general counsel to the Diocese of St. Petersburg,did not return repeated telephone calls Thursday.
Symons, churchofficials say, is undergoing psychological treatment at anundisclosed site.On Tuesday, he resigned as bishop of the Palm Beach diocese,admitting he like D'Angelo, his subordinate had molested altarboys decades ago.Symons' departure comes a week after Sidaway announced he'dsettled a lawsuit against the church in the D'Angelo case.
Sidawayis one of at least eight men who say the priest molested them.Sidaway sued Symons, the Diocese of Palm Beach and theArchdiocese of Miami in 1996.
In court documents, the church lateradmitted to the sexual assaults and to placing D'Angelo intreatment.
The church admitted promising victims' parents thepriest would be sent where he could not bother children; instead,D'Angelo spent 25 years in the Tampa Bay area.In November 1975, D'Angelo had been in St. Petersburg for sevenyears and wanted his affiliation officially transferred from Miami,according to church documents.Symons wrote Archbishop Coleman F. Carroll of Miami; the Miamichancellor wrote back to Symons' supervisor, the bishop of St.Petersburg, explaining the circumstances of D'Angelo's departurefrom South Florida.The Boynton Beach mother, who asks that her name be withheld,said her son went to the Palm Beach Diocese in the summer of 1995after decades of emotional problems.
Symons paid him about $725cash in all in weekly installments for therapy.
He left it at thedesk outside his office at St. Ignatius Cathedral on Military Trailin Palm Beach Gardens.Citing pastoral confidentiality, Symons declined comment threeyears ago when the payments were being made and later when theywere mentioned in sworn statements to prosecutors.Three suits remain pending against the Diocese of St.Petersburg, accusing its officials of knowing about D'Angelo's pastbut allowing him in the community anyway.Sidaway, who was first to come forward as victim and plaintiff,has settled his suit against the church out of court.
He iscontinuing a separate case against D'Angelo, who is retired andbelieved to be in a Maryland psychiatric hospital.For years, the Oregon couple known in cyberspace as Hubby andWifey had a little secret they liked to take video and stillpictures of each other when they made love.But their private pastime became public about a year ago whenHubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on anInternet discussion group.They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50each.
They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it'sa large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurttheir image as earnest amateurs.Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used areamong hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude andsexually explicit images of themselves online.They aren't professionals.
These aren't porn stars or toplessdancers.
They are everyday people who like to show off, and likeHubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 yearsold.
He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom withthree young children.One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussionforums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic.
Some ofthe groups are set up exclusively for the posting of eroticphotographs.The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internetthat combines graphics, text, sound and video.
There, a growingnumber of people who don't consider themselves part of the sexbusiness are setting up Web sites that feature photos ofthemselves.Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internetto turn a tidy profit.
Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-basedmarket research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in2001.The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where mostof the amateurs begin.
Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usuallythrough an expression of exhibitionism that generates positivefeedback.Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn'tupset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids.
And she wasparticularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from peoplewanting more.Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in theUsenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos ofthe couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-qualityvideo camera.But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paidan experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, whichwill be used to sell their videos in the near future.Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in1995.
Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days whenshe was designing the site herself.Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details ofsomeone's life or planned strip shows.Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains atongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature womenwho take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge moneyfor it.
Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, buthe soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to includethem on his pages.For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kindof safe underground where they can do so without being seen by themainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoringfor more.
The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, chargingvisitors $14.95 a month.But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures onUsenet.
Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accusedF1guru of taking advantage of her.Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from theirchildren.
And Wifey worries that her religious parents will findout.
If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Netwill likely be over.ATLANTA Each year at the Electronic Entertainment Expo, betterknown as E3, there's some easily defined trend, something that ajournalist looking for a snappy lead paragraph or pithy sound bitecould latch onto.This time, though, E3 was about evolution instead of revolution.The computer and video game industry, which combined is now biggerin dollars spent than the motion picture business, is either juststopping to catch its breath or is in serious danger of maturing.E3, which is now 5 years old, is easily my favorite trade show.It's smaller than the megashows such as Fall Comdex and PC Expo,where productivity often takes a back seat to the sheer logisticsof moving around.Having spent three days last week chatting up these folks andlooking at their wares, I've come to the following conclusions: 3-D video cards have come of age.
The first crop of videocards that could use 3-D graphics was disappointing, to say theleast.
Even the second generation lacked the punch necessary tomake them must-have components in consumer systems.But this latest crop, as well as some that will be availablelater this year, make good on the original promise.
Video cardchipsets such as Intel Corp.'s i740 and the current 3-D champion,3Dfx Interactive's Voodoo2, make it possible for designers andartists to fulfill almost any vision they have.The ability to do realistic graphics is having a major impact ongame design.
The best example I saw was the latest version ofSierra Online's popular adventure game series, King's Quest.Subtitled Mask of Eternity, it abandons the series' previous visualstyle of Disney-like cartoon characters in favor of a realistic,3-D design.
Sierra's artists and legendary game designer RobertaWilliams are comfortable enough with the quality of this look tohave it become a part of one of the company's franchise titles.Games such as Ion Storm's Daikatana created by John Romero,the id Software co-founder who was responsible for the game designin Doom and Quake Sierra's Half-Life and GT Interactive's Unrealshow what happens when incredibly talented artists are turned loosewith a technology that has almost no visual boundaries.
The worldsthese people are creating constitute a new art form, a kind ofliving comic book.
Stories are becoming more important.
While adventure gameshave always relied on plot and characters to draw players intotheir worlds, action and strategy games have not.
In the past, thisgenre has been typified by the kill-it-if-it-moves philosophy ofgame play.In Half-Life, for example, one of the creatures you confront isblind, but has excellent hearing.
All you see of the monster is aset of huge, clawed tentacles that feel their way around the room.If you run in firing, you're toast the thing will pin you withits claws.
The game also has other, computer-controlled humans whowill give you vital information.
If you kill them or let amonster take them down you may miss something vital.
Every game is multiplayer, but who's playing?
Game developersand publishers continue to be frustrated by their seeming inabilityto make money with online, multiplayer games.
The head ofElectronic Arts complained during an executive forum at E3 that thecompany's Ultima Online an online-only, role-playing game thatcan host thousands of players at once brought in just $150,000but cost $10 million to develop and maintain.Publishers and analysts say the problem is that consumers seeonline PC gaming as a cumbersome process many people who owngames with online components don't utilize them because they'reintimidated by trying to get them to work.
Others complain thatthere's so much free online play available such as games likeQuake and Quake II, in which anyone with a PC and a fast Netconnection can host a multiplayer game that people are reluctantto pay for the same experience.
Tradition is not dead.
Developers have discovered thatmainstream computer users are most comfortable with traditionaltitles they know from classic games.
Hasbro Interactive, which wasa nonentity in the game community just 18 months ago, has become amajor force by reviving familiar names such as Monopoly, Boggle,Scrabble and Yahtzee.Other publishers are following suit, and also are mining videogame nostalgia.
One title drawing a lot of interest was a 3-Dversion of Pac-Man, the 1980s icon.
Would I sound too much like adigital fuddy if I admitted I liked the original version a lotbetter?
Dwight Silverman can receive electronic mail via the Internet.Address your comments and questions todwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000 and enteraccess code 1001.
XXXX END OF STORY Q: Remember PC Tools for Windows?
The file manager had a viewerso you could toggle through files in many formats and see thecontents, then open, copy or delete.
There was no waiting, and noprograms were launched for viewing.
What current program offers thesame features for Windows 95?PC Tools, from Central Point Software, was easily the bestWindows 3.1 and MS-DOS utility of its day.
It competed withSymantec's Norton Utilities, until Symantec bought Central PointSoftware and discontinued the line.PC Tools for Windows had two great features an option that letyou set up multiple desktops, and a file manager that let youinstantly view a data file.
Those technologies found their way intoan early Windows 95 product, Norton Navigator.
But that product hada lot of problems, most notably the fact that it bogged down eventhe most powerful of computers.
Norton Navigator has since beendiscontinued.However, there is a product that's similar to PC Tools forWindows.
Mijenix's PowerDesk Utilities 98 has a lot of the samefeatures, including a file manager with a built-in file viewer.
Italso includes the multi-desktop feature found on PC Tools.
Best ofall, it won't bog down your system.PowerDesk Utilities began its life about the same time as NortonNavigator, as an early Windows 95 product from a company calledMicroHelp.
That's the same company that developed UnInstaller, theoriginal third-party uninstall program for Windows.
Mijenix nowowns PowerDesk and has done an excellent job of tweaking and tuningit.Q: I recently learned how to build Web pages, and I've puttogether a nice little home page for myself.
Now I want to put itup on the Internet, but I'm kind of at a loss.
How do I do this?I'm on America Online do I need to switch to a different providerto make my Web page available?A: One of the best-kept secrets about America Online is that theservice gives each subscriber two megabytes of server space perscreen name for a personal home page.
Since AOL allows you to haveup to five screen names, you could command as much as 10 megabytesof server space!You can post your Web site several ways.
If you do a keyword MYPLACE, you'll find an area that lets you post Web pages you'vecreated on your own.
You can upload the files here, one at a time,until you've delivered all your graphics and pages to the server.But AOL also has an area called Personal Publisher (use that asyour keyword), which automates the process of building a Web siteby using a template.
If you're a novice, this is the place for you.You don't need to know anything about Hypertext Markup Language, orHTML, the code in which Web pages are written.
Building your ownpage is as simple as filling in a form.Once you upload your page, it's located either at themembers.aol.com or the home.aol.com server the system will tellyou where.
You can then point your friends to the site by tellingthem to look at the name of the server, followed by a slash andyour screen name.
For example, if your screen name is JoeSmith andyour page was on the members.aol.com server, your site's addresswould be members.aol.com/joesmith.
Got a question about your computer?
Dwight Silverman can receiveelectronic mail via the Internet.
Address your comments andquestions to dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000and enter access code 1001.
XXXX END OF STORY SAN FRANCISCO The Treasure Island School has 460 kids inkindergarten through seventh grade, with an eighth grade and 140more kids to come next year.
All students are bused from SanFrancisco's Tenderloin, Chinatown and Mission neighborhoods.I just adopted this school.
It's on an island paradise, exceptit's called Willigan's Island (as in Mayor Willie Brown, who haskept the island off-limits to the general public).
That means thesekids need help.
It's either me or Quentin Kopp.You see, the kids are fenced in on an acre of asphalt asoftball's throw from palms and playing fields.
But they can't playthere without clearance from the island administration.They plant little gardens in boxes inside the fence, keep tabson the robin in its nest, and the kindergartners play in a patch ofweeds they find glorious.The only playground equipment on the school's asphalt is avolleyball net and some balls bought by teachers, and hula hoopsdonated by the San Francisco Sheriff's Department, which also hasadopted the school.A few feet beyond the fence are slides and jungle gyms in theunused former Navy housing area on Treasure Island, a former navalbase.This is the kind of equipment the school needs, but needs helpgetting from the island bureaucracy.
The principal still hasn'tgotten a response from her request last August for a piece ofplayground equipment she wanted.I love being an adoptive columnist.
Unfortunately, the schoolalso needs a $10,000 mat to put on the asphalt under the playgroundequipment.Lord knows where the money for that mat comes from, whenteachers choked on the $70 insurance fee Conroy's office was goingto charge for two class picnics on an island field Wednesday.Conroy said the kids now can go beyond the school fence withoutpaying for insurance, as long as they tell her office.Dong is a first-year principal learning how to deal with islandbureaucracy.
One thing this experienced educator doesn't have tolearn is how to run a school.Parents and kids in the finest clothes stood in a circlecheering and chanting as blindfolded children took whacks at apinata.This has been the first year the school's enrollment has beenall city kids.
When the Navy left, taking its dependents, cityparents were afraid the school would close, and 600 of them signeda petition to keep it open.The school brings life to a corner of the island, joy to thekids and pride to the teachers.
One hundred percent of theseventh-graders, all of whom learned English as a second language,passed the writing test given by the school system.The kids didn't seem to want to escape.
They watched attentivelyon Thursday as middle school boys played soccer against teachersand parents.companies to fund the wiring of schools and libraries to theInternet.value would it put on itself?
The answer, as might be expectedwith aas low as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion.
So, if Goldmanwere to sellAny number of deep thinkers have tried to provide an answer aswe observe the 30th anniversary of Robert F. Kennedy's death at thehands of an assassin.
Much of the punditry ventures the opinionthat Kennedy would have just plain changed the world if only hislife hadn't ended so abruptly and violently in June 1968.Arthur Schlesinger Jr., an acclaimed historian who served in theadministration of President John F. Kennedy, opined in Newsweekthat everything might have been different.Kennedy aficionados such as Schlesinger believe that an RFKpresidency would have saved the nation and the world from many ofthe terrible things that occurred in his absence: the continuingVietnam War; the continuing cycle of poverty and despair;paralyzing scandal and the growth of public cynicism aboutgovernment and politics ...That's speculation, of course.
Others might speculate thatPresident Bobby Kennedy would have presided over an unbridledexpansion of the welfare state; a debilitating dismantling of thenational defense; the undermining of America's health-care systemthrough the imposition of socialized medicine; and, last but notleast, the long-term strangulation of the nation's economyresulting from Kennedy's voracious appetite for taxing andspending.We haven't read much about such possibilities in the mediabecause the media remain mesmerized by the Kennedy mystique.
Neverlet facts stand in the way of a good story: If cruel fate hadn'tintervened, one of the Kennedy brothers would have led us to thepromised land.Sounds like fantasy land to me, but maybe I'm one of thosecynics who would have been spared the anguish of cynicism if onlyBobby had ascended to the throne.
Maybe I'm too cynical tounderstand what might have been.On the other hand, I wasn't cynical at all back in 1968 as Igeared up for my first vote in a presidential election.
As afirst-time voter, I was in the market for an idealist to vote for.I figured my best hope was Eugene McCarthy, who stepped up tothe plate and took on Lyndon B. Johnson in the New Hampshireprimary while RFK lurked in the shadows, agonizing over the hazardsof challenging the incumbent president of his own party.
Kennedydidn't throw his hat into the ring until McCarthy demonstratedJohnson's vulnerability by nearly pulling off a gigantic upset inNew Hampshire.It must be noted that all the projections about what Kennedymight have achieved are based on the premise that he would havebeen president that he would have won his party's nomination anddefeated Richard Nixon in the general election.
Neither of theseeventualities was anywhere close to the foregone conclusion thatSchlesinger and others would have us believe.But what if Bobby had become president?
Would he have saved theworld, as Schlesinger believes?
Or would he have left the world abigger mess than he found it, as his detractors would suggest?Personally, I'd be inclined to lean toward the bigger-messtheory.
But who knows?There's no denying that RFK was a man of great compassion andinsight, particularly when it came to those who were shortchangedby society.
One of his fondest dreams was to bridge the gaps thatseparate Americans by race, class and even political philosophy.If he'd achieved that dream, we might be saying now that nobodycared what else he did or didn't do.
(Bill Thompson is a columnist for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.You can contact him at (817) 390-7787.
Visit the Star-Telegram'sonline services on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)Adopting the statement on submission of women would be anotherexample of the extreme rightward swing of the 15.9 million-memberSouthern Baptist Convention the nation's largest Protestantgroup.Also, it would show the dramatic differences between moderatesand conservatives in the denomination.
Not that the two factionsaren't already irrevocably split.The moderates, following their ouster from power in the 1980s,have formed their own organization, called the Cooperative BaptistFellowship, which, in effect, already is a separate denomination.Whether one is a conservative or a moderate, though, statementsabout women submitting to their husbands likely will be acontroversial subject.His election would also be an emphatic indication of howconservative the Southern Baptist denomination has become.Patterson spearheaded the conservative revolution of the 1980s andnow is president of Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary inWake Forest, N.C.Ironically, Patterson's wife, Dorothy Patterson, is one of themost powerful women in the denomination.
She is an author, editorof a popular Woman's Study Bible published by Thomas Nelson, and apopular teacher and speaker throughout the denomination.Russell Dilday of Fort Worth, a leading moderate and presidentof the Baptist General Convention of Texas, which is separatelygoverned from the national convention, said the desire to add astatement supporting families is commendable.Baptist conservatives who insist on male leadership can takesome lessons from the Mormon leaders they will be visiting in thenext few days.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, like the mostconservative of Baptists, does not allow women to be pastors orpriests.
None of the ruling hierarchy of Mormons is a woman.Mormons, conservative Baptists, and some Episcopalians and RomanCatholics, for that matter, use the argument that because Jesus' 12apostles were all males, priestly leaders of the church should allbe males.So conservative Baptists and Mormons, although at odds over manytheological matters, will be in agreement this week about keepingwomen in their submissive places.
(Jim Jones is religion editor for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.You can contact him at (817) 390-7707, or e-mail:jimjones(at)star-telegram.com.
Visit the Star-Telegram's onlineservices on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)MOSCOW President Boris Yeltsin finds himself in a countrywhich does not actually belong to or obey him any more.This is not only because it has become apparent that the Russianpresident, as true of Mikhail Gorbachev once, feels much morecomfortable abroad than in his homeland.By winning the race for governor last month in the vast,mineral-rich, southern Siberian region of Krasnoyarsk, Lebed, the48-year-old, high-profile, former paratroop general, also winshimself a place in Russia's presidential elections in the year2000.By now it seems that not merely Lebed won a new place inRussia's national limelight.
Another factor won: It is the new hopewhich has won out.
Should Lebed prove to be able to maintain thishope until Russia's presidential elections, he will enter theKremlin, sweeping aside all the other candidates including thebeleaguered Yeltsin or any Yeltsin-backed candidates.Not long ago, of course, this military man, as commander of the14th army division, used his power and influence to finally put astop to the bloody Chechen war.
For that, he earned not thecongratulations, but the enmity of Yeltsin, who saw in it theambition of a rival to be president.
As such Yeltsin sacked Lebedfrom his job as Russia's top national security adviser.Without a doubt, Yeltsin is still able to make a number of theunpredictable moves characteristic of him.
After all, thispresident enjoys rights under a Constitution tailored to suit himand he may once again choose to shake the world by some extravagantescapade.
But he won't accomplish anything of substance.As governor, Lebed will have a seat on the Federation Council,the upper house of Russia's Parliament.
He holds a popular moralauthority indeed an immunity which Yeltsin himself used to enjoyfrom any real or imagined accusations of wrongdoing.Indeed, unless Lebed fails to learn anything from the mistakesmade by his former and present rivals, he is likely to enter theKremlin no matter what barricades are thrown up in his path.The mistakes are rather obvious; the general must have memorizedthem by now.
Lebed will not try to play the role of a rowdypolitician like the ultra-nationalist Zhirinovsky.
He will notconfuse people with statements about restoring Sevastopol andCrimea to Russia like Moscow mayor Yuri Luzhkov does.
He will notget himself televised after midnight in saunas or houses of illrepute.
He will not hasten to write books and keep the profits.
Hewill not order from France pedigree cows or indulge himself infinding new wives and lovers.With all that has befallen Russia the collapsed economy, thesocial decline, the unpaid salaries, the disappearance of publicservices Yeltsin will not be helped out in the next elections bythe tricks that have worked in prior races: not the Moscow bankers'money, nor the intellectual horror of the Moscow elite, nor theFederation Council's gubernatorial jealousy.The most helpless one in this tussle will be President Yeltsin.Even now, those surrounding Yeltsin, in their minds, have alreadyfled.
As for the power structures and the military that Yeltsin hasin fact been leaning on since 1993, while trying to appear loyal tohim, they will try to coordinate their every move with every moveLebed makes.
The generals may wear the stars that Yeltsin pinned onthem, but they will serve him looking over their shoulder at theother man.But there is also danger.
The measure of confidence the newlyelected Krasnoyarsk governor is going to get if he wins the Russianpresidential elections will make people accept not just hispresidency, but also his dictatorship.
Lebed will be saying thathis rule is a special brand of leadership a monarchy of the law,conscience and order.
Who will argue against it in Russia's currentpoverty-stricken state?As for fascism, no one has proven yet that Russia is afraid offascism.
Yeltsin has already laid a foundation of tolerance towardlimited fascism and, in many cases, the State Duma has openlysabotaged the passing of antifascist legislation.As for the vaccination against fascism the people are said tohave received, this is a dangerous myth.
Those who lived undercommunism are not to be intimidated by fascism.MOSCOW President Boris Yeltsin finds himself in a countrywhich does not actually belong to or obey him any more.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.TAKE A LOOK ... A selection of articles -- plus art, availableelectronically -- from this section can be purchased from The NewYork Times Syndicate for newspapers to create their ownenvironmentally themed supplements!
( U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in KansasCity at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now thanever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history.
Or at leastthere were that many before human beings appeared and beganchanging the rules.
Homo sapiens have become so powerful aninfluence on the biosphere that many experts fear they areperpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction.
William K. Stevens,who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- ofland in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timbercompany, which is discussed in this feature.
By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that italmost resembles a new species.
In the old days, it was mostly usedto block development and preserve the habitat of a species close toextinction.
Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitiousand subtler, as the government and landowners design managementplans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts ofprivate land, but at the same time not block development.
John H.Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,reports.
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvestingheirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,which is discussed in this feature.
By KEITH SCHNEIDER Taxol, the potent breast cancer drug, was discovered in yew treebark.
Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin ofAfrican clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.
So whycare about protecting endangered species around the world?
Becauseno one knows where the next scientific breakthrough will be found... and inadvertently destroying Earth's species might mean it willnever be found.
A fascinating report by Andrew C. Revkin, a NewYork Times reporter who has written books on rain forests andglobal warming.An economist in the rain forest?
How will that help preserve ourplanet's biodiversity?
Well, it couldn't hurt, reports PeterPassell, who writes about economics for The New York Times.
Forexample, economists can help people to think seriously about how toprovide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds ofcreatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's4.6-billion-year history.
Or at least there were that many beforehuman beings appeared very late in the game and began changing therules.At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rodsand filaments.
For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were allthe life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curvesince then.
From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,millions of species populate the world.The curve has not been a smooth one.
At least five times in thelast 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, likedrastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped outwhole families of organisms.
Such events have threatened to eraselife, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new anddifferent families.Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,single species winked out here and there to be replaced by newones.Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful aninfluence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it isperpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.If so, it is happening simply because people are actingnaturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for humanworks like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animalsaround the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a largernumber of less hardy ones.The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's humanpopulation, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling beforeleveling off in perhaps a century.The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology'spower to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth.
About 1.4million have been described and named, but biologists believe thereare at least 10 times that many.And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-dayextinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing thevariety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now callbiological diversity, or just biodiversity.Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds ofspecies.
It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.On one level, it is expressed by the number of geneticvariations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroythe wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt andsurvive in the long run.On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewilderingvariety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communitiesof plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level ofecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnectedsubunits, right down to the microscopic.
It is these interconnectedcommunities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety oflife, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.Why does this matter?
Conservationists and biologists offer anumber of answers.
On the practical level, wild species provide theraw material for medicine and food.
Who knows what undiscoveredplant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?Acting together, wild species support the human economy byproviding an array of services like water purification, soilformation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoorrecreation.On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Withouthumans, the biosphere would not miss a beat.
But without insectsand microbes, humans would disappear quickly.Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone specieshold everything together, and that if they are removed, the systemwill collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety ofplant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as manyspecies as possible.
They have their work cut out for them, sincethe catalogue of imperilment is long.In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biologicalvitality, an earlier assessment, by United States FederalGovernment scientists, found that vast stretches of the naturallandscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48states, had declined to the point of endangerment.This report, the first ever done on the state of health of thenation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some ofwhich dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, havebeen destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.Not even the trackless ocean is immune.
Overfishing has pushedsome marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water tostun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintainthe reef ecosystem.The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should notbe overinterpreted.
The recent red-listing of plants includes manysimply because they are rare.
While many may be vulnerable, humansdo not threaten them just yet.On the action front, there are bright spots.
Over the lastcentury, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stemthe human assault on nature.In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not includingthe United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments toprotect plant and animal species.But victories are scattered or overturned.
Recently, a federalcourt, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restorationproject, and a legal battle is under way.The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathedto Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can beused to save diversity as well as destroy it.It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds ofcreatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's4.6-billion-year history.
Or at least there were that many beforehuman beings appeared very late in the game and began changing therules.At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rodsand filaments.
For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were allthe life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curvesince then.
From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,millions of species populate the world.The curve has not been a smooth one.
At least five times in thelast 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, likedrastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped outwhole families of organisms.
Such events have threatened to eraselife, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new anddifferent families.Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,single species winked out here and there to be replaced by newones.Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful aninfluence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it isperpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.If so, it is happening simply because people are actingnaturally harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for humanworks like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animalsaround the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a largernumber of less hardy ones.The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's humanpopulation, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling beforeleveling off in perhaps a century.The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology'spower to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth.
About 1.4million have been described and named, but biologists believe thereare at least 10 times that many.And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-dayextinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing thevariety of life on Earth what conservation biologists now callbiological diversity, or just biodiversity.Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds ofspecies.
It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.On one level, it is expressed by the number of geneticvariations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroythe wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt andsurvive in the long run.On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewilderingvariety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communitiesof plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level ofecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnectedsubunits, right down to the microscopic.
It is these interconnectedcommunities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety oflife, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.Why does this matter?
Conservationists and biologists offer anumber of answers.
On the practical level, wild species provide theraw material for medicine and food.
Who knows what undiscoveredplant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?Acting together, wild species support the human economy byproviding an array of services like water purification, soilformation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoorrecreation.On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Withouthumans, the biosphere would not miss a beat.
But without insectsand microbes, humans would disappear quickly.Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone specieshold everything together, and that if they are removed, the systemwill collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety ofplant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as manyspecies as possible.
They have their work cut out for them, sincethe catalogue of imperilment is long.In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biologicalvitality, an earlier assessment, by United States FederalGovernment scientists, found that vast stretches of the naturallandscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48states, had declined to the point of endangerment.This report, the first ever done on the state of health of thenation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some ofwhich dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, havebeen destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.Not even the trackless ocean is immune.
Overfishing has pushedsome marine species the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example to the brink of commercial extinction.Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water tostun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintainthe reef ecosystem.The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should notbe overinterpreted.
The recent red-listing of plants includes manysimply because they are rare.
While many may be vulnerable, humansdo not threaten them just yet.On the action front, there are bright spots.
Over the lastcentury, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stemthe human assault on nature.In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not includingthe United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments toprotect plant and animal species.But victories are scattered or overturned.
Recently, a federalcourt, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restorationproject, and a legal battle is under way.The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathedto Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can beused to save diversity as well as destroy it.WASHINGTON It has been more than 20 years since advocates ofsaving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on thebrink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authorityfrom building the $137 million Tellico Dam.That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.Economists have no business telling people what they shouldvalue, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on thesubject of rationality.If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help makethe cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bangfor a buck.
And they can help people to think seriously about howto provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphraseYosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugscomes from plants.
And biotechnology companies are eager to gainaccess to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plantand animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning thatbiodiversity is not going to pay for itself.
The creation ofproperty rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role inprotecting endangered habitats.Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys toeverything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests.
Why,then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valuedaccordingly?What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity.
And while there may bemillions of potentially useful species, there is also vastbiochemical redundancy in the environment.
Thus the value of anyacre is limited by the fact that an identical species probablygrows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the usefulchemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea containcaffeine as a defense against predators.
And where naturallyoccurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking forthem is offset by the high cost of such a task.Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues atResources for the Future, estimated the potential value ofpreservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world.
Andwhile their figures are necessarily crude extrapolating fromuseful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost ofdeveloping drugs from them they are deliberately designed to erron the high side.Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospectingrights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre inwestern Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 centsan acre in the eastern Himalayas.
That may be enough to justifybiosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses likegrazing or gathering firewood.That said, what can economists contribute to the debate?
Forone, they can help a society sort through its priorities by lookingat what people are willing to pay to support those values.
Theevidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflectsonly the narrowest of concerns.In research to be published this summer in the Journal ofEconomic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvardcolleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United StatesFish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebratespecies that are listed as endangered.You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of aspecies would increase its standing.
So ought the probability thatintervention would preserve the species.
Last but hardly least iscost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resourcesneeded to keep the species intact.In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the moreendangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms ofdislocating economic activities, the higher the priority thespecies gets.What seems to count most in determining spending priorities aresize (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potentialdisappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animalsthat help knit healthy ecosystems.
But the focus on fur balls mayor may not bother taxpayers.Economists have no business telling people what they shouldvalue, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on thesubject of rationality.If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help makethe cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bangfor a buck.
And they can help people to think seriously about howto provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preservehabitats that matter little to peasant farmers.This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Saturday, June6, 1998.
We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDTMonday-Friday.
Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.EDT Monday-Friday.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
The night news editor, until 10p.m.
EDT, is Tom Oder at 404-526-5456.FEDERAL-DEBTS WASHINGTON A federal program that was supposedto help collect debts that are owed the government has cost $40million but brought in only $4 million, lawmakers complained at aHouse oversight hearing Friday.
Treasury officials offered fewassurances that they could make a big dent in the $52 billion innon-tax related debts owed the U.S. (Malone, Cox News Service 500).YORKTOWN-SURVIVORS WASHINGTON While ocean explorers from theNational Geographic Society were presenting a remote-control videotour of the American aircraft carrier U.S.S.
Yorktown this week,survivors of the ship toured their memories of the bedlam of amajor sea battle.
(Nesmith, Cox News Service 1000).WILDE Directed by: Brian Gilbert Screenplay by: Julian Mitchell, based on Richard Ellman'sbiography Starring: Stephen Fry, Jude Law, Vanessa Redgrave, Jennifer Ehle,Gemma Jones, Judy Parfitt, Michael Sheen, Zoe Wanamaker, TomWilkinsen Playing at: Kendall Square Cinema; Embassy Cinema, Waltham Running time: 116 minutes Rated: R (strong sexuality and language) The best thing about Fry's Wilde is his way of making us realizethat Wilde spent more time feeling than talking.
He may haveexhibited a self-destructive streak in stubbornly chasing after thewild, petulant, and emotionally and intellectually pinched LordAlfred Douglas, but Fry's reaction shots make a good case for thefact that he was a steadfast and caring friend.
That caring alsoextended to his loyal and loving wife, even if he subordinated herhappiness and well-being, and that of his two children, to hispursuit of young Douglas, nicknamed Bosie.Nor does the film flinch from depicting, although not unendinglyor leeringly, a few convincing homosexual sex scenes.
It was thetestimony of several so-called rent boys, after all, that sankWilde in his ill-advised suit against Bosie's vicious andvindictive father, the marquess of Queensberry (the same man who,ironically, invented the rules said to have civilized boxing).
Asno other Wilde before him has done, Fry conveys with his eyes acertainty that his arrogant and capricious young lover is going tobe bad news, and an equal certainty that he will pursue Bosie allthe same, even though it cost him everything.Fry and director Brian Gilbert's biggest accomplishment is toportray Wilde with dignity, even as he seems more than a littleridiculous playing the fop.
Jude Law moves a promising career yetanother step forward as the unscrupulous Bosie, utterly convincingas a shallow but dangerous brat.
Jennifer Ehle is another plus asWilde's wife, the aptly named Constance, who stood by her erranthusband.
Michael Sheen is sympathetic as Wilde's first male lover,the Canadian Robbie Ross, who returned Wilde's love.
For a worldlyman, Fry's Wilde proceeds with prodigious blindness to theconsequences of thumbing his nose at the establishment, which stoodfor it in his plays, but drew the line when in real life hechallenged its hypocrisy.But Herlihy just doesn't fit the profile of the usual HAAglad-hander.
He can't remember making a donation since he graduatedfrom the World's Greatest University in 1980, and he thinks he maybe the first board member to have spent his Harvard years in theonce-radical Dudley Co-ops, off-campus cooperative housing in NorthCambridge.Shortly before Herlihy was to begin his two-year term, HAA bossReardon phoned him in a tizzy.
You're the wrong David Herlihy,Reardon gasped.
We meant to appoint David Herlihy of Hyannis, aretired executive who spent 37 years at IBM.
Ooops.
Our DavidHerlihy went to the first meeting anyway, met the real DavidHerlihy, and surprise, surprise got the feeling that he wasn'treally wanted.For years, the Eugene, Ore., couple known in cyberspace as Hubbyand Wifey had a little secret they liked to take video and stillpictures of each other when they made love.But their private pastime became public about a year ago whenHubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on anInternet discussion group.They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50each.
They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it'sa large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurttheir image as earnest amateurs.Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used areamong hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude andsexually explicit images of themselves online.They aren't professionals.
These aren't porn stars or toplessdancers.
They are everyday people who like to show off, and likeHubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 yearsold.
He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom withthree young children.One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussionforums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic.
Some ofthe groups are set up exclusively for the posting of eroticphotographs.The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internetthat combines graphics, text, sound and video.
There, a growingnumber of people who don't consider themselves part of the sexbusiness are setting up Web sites that feature photos ofthemselves.Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internetto turn a tidy profit.
Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-basedmarket research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in2001.The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where mostof the amateurs begin.
Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usuallythrough an expression of exhibitionism that generates positivefeedback.Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn'tupset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids.
And she wasparticularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from peoplewanting more.Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in theUsenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos ofthe couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-qualityvideo camera.But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paidan experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, whichwill be used to sell their videos in the near future.Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in1995.
Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days whenshe was designing the site herself.Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details ofsomeone's life or planned strip shows.Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains atongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature womenwho take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge moneyfor it.
Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, buthe soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to includethem on his pages.For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kindof safe underground where they can do so without being seen by themainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoringfor more.
The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, chargingvisitors $14.95 a month.But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures onUsenet.
Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accusedF1guru of taking advantage of her.Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from theirchildren.
And Wifey worries that her religious parents will findout.
If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Netwill likely be over.The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the followingstories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions ofSaturday, June 6, and thereafter.
If you have any questions, pleasecall Tina May at (206) 448-8355.Here are the top news stories in sight at this hour from The NewYork Times News Service for AMs of Saturday, June 6:Please note that news stories and features from The ArizonaRepublic, Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, FortWorth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, TheKansas City Star, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle,Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Ser vice and the New YorkTimes Regional newspapers are all part of your New York Times NewsService file.A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors forPage 1 will move at approximately 4:30 p.m.
ET asAM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER.Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be listed in AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT,which will move by approximately 7 p.m. ET.HOUSE-BUDGET (Washington) The House is to vote on a budgetresolution with huge tax and spending cuts, putting it on acollision course not only with its own appropriators but with theSenate and the Clinton administration, guaranteeing a big budgetfight later in the year.
By Richard W. Stevenson.CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) The Senate Intelligence Committeeresumes closed-door hearings on Chinese satellite technology,trying to resolve with Attorney General Reno and FBI director Freeha dispute over classified documents the committee wants.
By EricSchmitt.ORE-ASSISTED-SUICIDE (Washington) Reversing a previousgovernment threat to suspend the licenses of physicians who helppeople kill themselves, Attorney General Reno says JusticeDepartment will not intervene in Oregon's assisted-suicide law, thefirst of its kind in the country.
By Neil A. Lewis.GM-STRIKE (Flint, Mich.) About 3,400 UAW workers went onstrike at a key General Moters parts plant here, protesting whatthey see as a lack of investment in the area and company plans tosend work outside the area.
If the strike lasts a week, half ofGM's plants in the country will shut down because of lack of parts.UTAH-POLICE-SLAYING (Bluff, Utah) One fugitive survivalistsought for the killing of a Colorado policeman was found dead witha bullet wound between the eyes, and the authorities hope they havethe other two suspects surrounded today in a nearby canyon.
Thiscommunity of 300 has been evacuated since Thursday afternoon.
By JoThomas.TEXAS-GIRL-ATTACKED (Dallas) A fourth-grade boy convicted ofbeating and sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl, who was leftbruised and bloodied, could be sentenced to up to 40 years ofprison today.CLINTON-TECH (Cambridge, Mass.)
Clinton, in the commencementaddress at MIT, talks about kids and technology and the 21stcentury.
By James Bennet.NY-FLIGHT-DELAYS (New York) A breakdown in the the air trafficcontrol computer system causes delays of up to two hours atregion's airports, with resulting effects around the country.KOSOVO-NATO (Washington) On Kosovo, there is much NATOhand-wringing about what to do, but little stomach for sending introops.
Restored sanctions aimed at Serbia are likely.
By StevenErlanger.KOREA-U.S. (Seoul) Kim Dae Jung, the former dissident and whois now president of South Korea, returns to the United States onSaturday, to a much better reception.
By Nicolas D. Kristof.IRAQ-U.N. (United Nations) Iraq's foreign minister holds anews conference to comment on the two days of briefings by armsinspectors.
By Barbara Crossette.ETHIOPIA-ERITREA (Asmara, Eritrea) Two Ethiopian militaryaircraft bomb an Eritrean air force base in the capital today, aday after Ethiopia's Prime Minister agrees to a peace proposal fortheir disputed border.ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs thanexpected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a28-year low of 4.3 percent.
Payrolls expanded by 296,000 peoplelast month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000.
April'semployment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initialestimate of 262,000.
Workers' average hourly earnings, a gauge oflabor costs, rose 0.3 percent, or 4 cents, in May, slower thanApril's increase of half a percent.
By Sylvia Nasar.INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the WhiteHouse's new proposal for overhauling the Internet's naming andaddress system.
The proposal will refine a plan announced earlierthis year to turn over management of the system to the privatesector and stimulate competition for registering new Internetaddresses.
By Amy Harmon.INTERNET-FCC (Washington) The FCC is considering whether tohalt the collection of money from telecommunications companies tofinance the wiring of schools and libraries to the Internet.GOLDMAN-WORTH (New York) Goldman, Sachs has taken manycompanies to market, putting its prized imprimatur on the value ofthousands of public offerings of shares.
So what value would it puton itself?
The answer, as might be expected with a franchise asenvied as Goldman, is not clear-cut, and estimates range from aslow as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion.
So, if Goldman wereto sell a 20 percent piece of itself to the public this fall, assome expect, it would be making a multibillion-dollar offering,possibly one of the biggest in recent years.
By Peter Truell.ASTRA-MERCK (Undated) Astra appears ready to buy Merck's halfof their American joint venture in a transaction that would have avalue in the billions of dollars.LOS ANGELES Want to meet that cute bachelor in the nextbuilding who walks his bulldog in the morning?
Got a yen to playFrisbee on the beach with a high-jumping hound?
Or jog in the parkwith a glad-to-be-with-you canine?Actually, the program which offers all-day and all-nightvisits with abused and abandoned dogs who have been rescued and arebeing resocialized for adoption is misnamed.
There's no rentalinvolved, no fee for taking a dog out.The 5-month-old enterprise was the brainchild of Roberts andCamp Happy Dog owners Deborah Nabb and Nick Deleo.
Nabb and Deleohad opened their Sherman Oaks day-care center for dogs about fivemonths earlier and had begun to look for ways to become involved inpet rescue efforts.That was about the same time Roberts was looking for a place tosocialize and showcase dogs up for adoption.Most of the dogs the Neva Foundation rescues come from diresituations and are fortunate to find good homes.Tyrone, a fuzzy-faced abandoned pup with a Benji-like appeal,immediately caught Nabb's eye.
She called her friend, Dana Weinbergof Encino, and urged her to adopt the little fellow even thoughWeinberg wasn't sure she wanted to take in a second dog.If there's a major success story to come out of the adoptionprogram, it's Sam, a mixed-breed dog with ears like a donkey's.
Hisowner moved and gave Sam up; it took six months to find him a newowner.There's a tug-of-war game going on and a furious game of chase.And over in the corner, one exhausted player has curled up for animpromptu nap.So, instead of leaving Butch or Fido alone at home, owners bringtheir pooches to spend the day with other latchkey canines underthe watchful eye of dog trainers who referee tussles, play ball,take them for walks, groom them, put them through obediencetraining and just generally act as surrogate parents for the day.Day care costs $20 per pooch per day and includes all the gamesa dog can play before collapsing in exhaustion.
About a dozencustomers' dogs come to play each day, joining the handful of dogsthat have been rescued and are up for adoption.
Day-care dogs musthave proof of up-to-date immunizations; dogs for adoption have hadtheir shots, too.In the storefront shop on busy Ventura Boulevard, Camp Happy Dogis nearly filled with a corral formed from sections of 5-foot-tallmovable wooden fence.
Inside the enclosure is a small doghouse, abasket of dog toys and a full water dish.
In the winter, it's warminside; in the heat of summer, the air conditioning keeps thepooches cool.Most owners drop off their dogs on the way to work and pick themup on the way home.
But Deleo also picks up and delivers, takesdogs to veterinary appointments and even arranges after-hoursdog-sitting for customers, like those in the TV and film industry,who work odd schedules.Both Nabb and Deleo came by their love of dogs naturally.
Hisfather trained dogs for the U.S. Army; her grandfather bredLabradors.
Before opening the shop, Deborah was a dog trainer; Nickwas a financial manager who also had worked as a dog trainer.It could happen.
And it could be a giant ball of chocolate, suchas Nestle's new Armageddon Asteroid, a hollow chocolate ball filledwith tangy red and black meteorites.SHE'S BAAACK: It's happy news for Nancy Drew fans.
The mysteryseries most girls grew up with is back in its original form, withthe same book jackets used in the '30s when the series made itsdebut.
Remember those early books, when the fictional teen-agedetective was a blonde instead of titian-haired and carried anelectric torch instead of a flashlight?
Miz Hot Tips used to spendher entire allowance on the mysteries each week, so she wasthrilled to spot them in bookstores again, now priced at $12.95.And there's a bonus.
The new collector's editions have nostalgicintroductions by contemporary mystery writers, including SaraParetsky.BEAUTY BUZZ: Hot off the fax machine is news that the Gap hasits own line of sunscreens.
... Sebastian now makes a swimmer'sshampoo called Performance Active that gets rid of chlorine.
...Nordstrom now carries e-nail, a cool product for trendies like DrewBarrymore and Jewel that looks like a CD and has tiny frog princesand other cutsey decals for summer manicures.
And speaking ofBarrymore, the young actress has designed a line of tank tops available at Planet Hollywood stores to support WildlifeWaystation.PET PATROL: This is Pet Appreciation Week, and that meanspay-back time for all the love and loyalty your furry or featheredfriend has given you.
So don't forget a catnip mouse, a new ball ora fresh seed treat, but do forget (at least this week) about thoseshredded draperies, carpet accidents and other pet mishaps.If you have a dog that loves to go for runs with you, considerthe pet first aid kit developed by the Los Angeles chapter of theAmerican Red Cross.
You can get the kit for $35 at local Red Crossoffices or by calling (213) 739-5289.It could happen.
And it could be a giant ball of chocolate, suchas Nestle's new Armageddon Asteroid, a hollow chocolate ball filledwith tangy red and black meteorites.SHE'S BAAACK: It's happy news for Nancy Drew fans.
The mysteryseries most girls grew up with is back in its original form, withthe same book jackets used in the '30s when the series made itsdebut.
Remember those early books, when the fictional teen-agedetective was a blonde instead of titian-haired and carried anelectric torch instead of a flashlight?
Miz Hot Tips used to spendher entire allowance on the mysteries each week, so she wasthrilled to spot them in bookstores again, now priced at $12.95.And there's a bonus.
The new collector's editions have nostalgicintroductions by contemporary mystery writers, including SaraParetsky.BEAUTY BUZZ: Hot off the fax machine is news that the Gap hasits own line of sunscreens.
... Sebastian now makes a swimmer'sshampoo called Performance Active that gets rid of chlorine.
...Nordstrom now carries e-nail, a cool product for trendies like DrewBarrymore and Jewel that looks like a CD and has tiny frog princesand other cutsey decals for summer manicures.
And speaking ofBarrymore, the young actress has designed a line of tank tops available at Planet Hollywood stores to support WildlifeWaystation.PET PATROL: This is Pet Appreciation Week, and that meanspay-back time for all the love and loyalty your furry or featheredfriend has given you.
So don't forget a catnip mouse, a new ball ora fresh seed treat, but do forget (at least this week) about thoseshredded draperies, carpet accidents and other pet mishaps.If you have a dog that loves to go for runs with you, considerthe pet first aid kit developed by the Los Angeles chapter of theAmerican Red Cross.
You can get the kit for $35 at local Red Crossoffices or by calling (213) 739-5289.What we've got here is a triangle, and the underrated ViggoMortensen, as the artist who's romancing the married woman, is morethan adequate to the task of holding up his quota of the venalityand danger hemming Paltrow's anxious woman in.
The screenplay issmart enough to make sure Paltrow is handed more than a victimrole.
Still, it amounts to a square-off between Douglas's ragingbut outwardly controlled husband and Mortensen's smooth barbarianat the gates.
The trouble at home is exacerbated by thewheeler-dealer's business troubles.
His wife's trust fund, in fact,would help him cover some reckless financial overextensions.So the plot is hatched.
Douglas, using moral outrage like abaton, suggests Gordon Gekko under pressure, who has perhaps lost alittle off his fastball.
In this film where everybody has at leastone guilty secret and nobody's hands are clean, Douglas projectsinstincts as basic as any.
Getting the edge on the painter bylooking into the latter's past, he blackmails him into murderinghis wife, sets up the killing, and retreats into an airtight alibiat his club.
Naturally, the murder doesn't go as planned.
That'swhen the improvisation and the guignol-based entertainment begins, enlivened by glimpses of a multi-culti New York,personified by Sarita Choudhury's pal to Paltrow at the UnitedNations, where both work as translators, and by David Suchet'sArabic-American cop, as unnervingly competent-seeming as the sleuthSuchet plays on TV, Hercule Poirot.Without giving anything away, it can be said that the film endswith a death, and involves a couple more along the way.
They'restaged for shock value, and achieve it.
The film works as a seriesof skilled and cynical hammerstrokes executed in a pervasivedarkness that makes the route between Wall Street and the UpperEast Side seem a tunnel to hell.Douglas is, as usual, all fire and ice, clenched and furious.Paltrow becomes interesting when she abandons her usual air of coolself-possession and allows her features to blur with the stressshe's feeling as she simmers in her bad choice of men.
Mortensenholds the screen against them both as the far from romanticpsychopath, whose role is expanded most beyond the original, andwho takes it to career-propelling realms of silken creepiness.For years, the Oregon couple known in cyberspace as Hubby andWifey had a little secret they liked to take video and stillpictures of each other when they made love.But their private pastime became public about a year ago whenHubby, on a lark, posted a Polaroid of a topless Wifey on anInternet discussion group.They've been selling a lot of those videos at about $40 to $50each.
They don't want to say how much money they've made, but it'sa large sum enough that they worry that revealing it would hurttheir image as earnest amateurs.Hubby and Wifey who don't want their real names used areamong hundreds, maybe thousands of individuals who post nude andsexually explicit images of themselves online.They aren't professionals.
These aren't porn stars or toplessdancers.
They are everyday people who like to show off, and likeHubby and Wifey, some of them are making good money doing so.Hubby and Wifey, who met in high school, are now both 33 yearsold.
He owns a distribution business; she's a stay-at-home mom withthree young children.One is in Usenet news groups, thousands of individual discussionforums on the Internet, each devoted to a specific topic.
Some ofthe groups are set up exclusively for the posting of eroticphotographs.The other area is the World Wide Web, the part of the Internetthat combines graphics, text, sound and video.
There, a growingnumber of people who don't consider themselves part of the sexbusiness are setting up Web sites that feature photos ofthemselves.Sex on the Web is big business, one of the few on the Internetto turn a tidy profit.
Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass.-basedmarket research firm, estimates that sex Web sites will rake in$137 million this year, a figure that will jump to $296 million in2001.The Web is where the money is made, but it is Usenet where mostof the amateurs begin.
Much like Wifey and Hubby, it is usuallythrough an expression of exhibitionism that generates positivefeedback.Wifey, who happily admits to an exhibitionist streak, wasn'tupset when Hubby first posted those topless Polaroids.
And she wasparticularly gratified at the e-mail that poured in from peoplewanting more.Hubby and Wifey gladly obliged and gave the regulars in theUsenet news groups what they wanted extremely explicit photos ofthe couple having sex, including still pictures from a high-qualityvideo camera.But it's worth it financially enough that the couple has paidan experienced Web site design firm to create Wifey's World, whichwill be used to sell their videos in the near future.Danni Ashe, former topless dancer and soft-core porn film star,was one of the first professionals to launch a sex Web site back in1995.
Danni's Hard Drive has grown dramatically from the days whenshe was designing the site herself.Another popular venue for online exhibitionists are Web-cams live video cameras that show either the intimate details ofsomeone's life or planned strip shows.Billy DaMota, a Hollywood casting director, maintains atongue-in-cheek directory on the Web of sites that feature womenwho take their clothes off in front of a Web-cam and charge moneyfor it.
Customers pay a monthly fee to have access to the cams,enticed by a free area up front that shows past scenes.DaMota said his listing began as a parody of another site, buthe soon began getting requests from women who wanted him to includethem on his pages.For many amateurs who want to show off, the Internet is a kindof safe underground where they can do so without being seen by themainstream including their relatives, friends and neighbors.Tobi became an online sensation, with Usenet regulars clamoringfor more.
The couple set up a Web site earlier this year, chargingvisitors $14.95 a month.But then, a boyfriend of Tobi's cousin spotted her pictures onUsenet.
Her cousin then told the rest of Tobi's family, who accusedF1guru of taking advantage of her.Hubby and Wifey keep their Internet activities away from theirchildren.
And Wifey worries that her religious parents will findout.
If that happens, she said, her days of flaunting it on the Netwill likely be over.THE TRUMAN SHOW Directed by: Peter Weir Screenplay by: Andrew Niccol Starring: Jim Carrey, Laura Linney, Noah Emmerich, NataschaMcElhone, Holland Taylor, Ed Harris Playing at: Cheri, suburbs Running time: 104 minutes Rated: PG (thematic elements and mild language) Not only does Christof control the weather; he also controls theaggressive cheer level in this film that neatly turns the tables onso-called reality-based TV as it follows the logic of turning livesinto programming.
What does reality become when all it wants to dois copy TV?
Truman is the only thing that's unscripted, or ratherthe innocence of his reactions is.
His innocence and his privacyare the real subjects of the show-within-the-movie, not the dailybanalities he has been conditioned to believe constitute reality inhis blindingly sunny world of greeting-card platitudes, shimmeringso surrealistically.
The brave new world of Shakespeare and AldousHuxley has been supplanted by a ratings-driven world.
Cannon fodderhas been replaced by camera fodder.
Five thousand hidden camerasare ever ready to capture Truman's every move and flicker throughSeahaven's beachfront world of Victorian replicas and white picketfences.Truman's appeal is rooted in Carrey's ability to project achildlike acceptance of everything at what better for TV?
facevalue.
He only dimly suspects that everybody around him isdifferent.
He isn't paranoiac, but should be.
Yet director PeterWeir and screenwriter Andrew Niccol shrewdly allow Truman to feelthe cocoonlike comfort of his squeaky-clean box, the life he onlynow realizes has been the centerpiece in a massive falsifying ofexperience.
Truman's anger, revved into action as he realizes histheme-park world is a cage he must escape, must blast through thepassive urge to let TV keep doling out cues.
Financial stories in sight at this hour from The New York TimesNews Service for newspapers of SATURDAY, June 6.
For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)556-1927.
And be sure to look for other financial stories from ourpartners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs thanexpected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a28-year low of 4.3 percent.
Payrolls expanded by 296,000 peoplelast month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000.
April'semployment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initialestimate of 262,000.
Workers' average hourly earnings, a gauge oflabor costs, rose 0.3 percent, or 4 cents, in May, slower thanApril's increase of half a percent.
By Sylvia Nasar.INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the WhiteHouse's new proposal for reforming the Internet's naming andaddress system.
The proposal will refine a plan announced earlierthis year to turn over management of the system to the privatesector and stimulate competition for registering new Internetaddresses.
By Amy Harmon.INTERNET-FCC (Washington) The FCC is considering whether tohalt the collection of money from telecommunications companies tofund the wiring of schools and libraries to the Internet.GOLDMAN-WORTH (New York) Goldman, Sachs has taken manycompanies to market, putting its prized imprimatur on the value ofthousands of public offerings of shares.
So what value would it puton itself?
The answer, as might be expected with a franchise asenvied as Goldman, is not clear-cut, and estimates range from aslow as $15 billion to as high as $35 billion.
So, if Goldman wereto sell a 20 percent piece of itself to the public this fall, assome expect, it would be making a multibillion-dollar offering,possibly one of the biggest in recent years.
By Peter Truell.ASTRA-MERCK (Undated) Astra appears ready to buy Merck's halfof their American joint venture in a transaction that would have avalue in the billions of dollars.
For questions about stories, contact Al Simons at the BostonGlobe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphics orphotos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.MOVIE-TRUMAN (Undated) Comic Jim Carry pushes the envelope ashe plays Truman, whose life is a soap opera played to millions, butin his soul knows something is wrong.
By Jay Carr.MOVIE-MARIUS (Undated) A sunny and endearing throwback of afilm about the lives of ordinary people in Marseilles.
By Jay Carr.Entertainment and culture stories in sight at this hour from TheN.Y.
Times News Service for Saturday, June 6.For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)556-1927.
And be sure to look for other entertainment stories fromour partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, indentists' chairs and over dinner, the continuing news about bothViagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change inthe way many Americans speak about a subject that some would preferbe barely spoken about at all.
In recent months, the subject of sexand the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a fewinches closer to the conversationally commonplace.
By Janny Scott.WAR-CENTENIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot ofclanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps someminor historical revisionism.
The 1898 observation, now under wayin Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a toughone.
So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplatehow we got from there to here.
By Timothy Egan.
(1500 words)For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)556-1927.
And be sure to look for other sports stories from ourpartners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,Hearst News Service, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.RAC-BELMONT (New York) In Saturday's running of the BelmontStakes, Real Quiet will try to become the 12th winner of the TripleCrown, an achievement that horse racing has been waiting 20 yearsfor.
By Joseph Durso.BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweighttitle fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off afterAkinwande tested positive for hepatitis B.
This follows a femalefighter being disqualified because she was pregnant.
If the cardgoes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will bethe headliner.
It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in asports facility that pledged to get back into the business.OBIT-POVICH (Undated) Shirley Povich, a member of the writerswing of baseball's Hall of Fame and whose career as a sports writercovered more than 75 years at The Washington Post, died of a heartattack.
He was 92.
By Ira Berkow.Science and health stories in sight at this hour from The NewYork Times News Service for SATURDAY , June 6.For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)556-1927.
And be sure to look for other science stories from ourpartners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and Americanscientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery ofneutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung overthe 120-member team one that could hamstring future research.
ByMalcolm Browne.For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)556-1927.
And be sure to look for other stories from our partners:Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, HearstNewspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, KansasCity Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, SanFrancisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and Americanscientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery ofneutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung overthe 120-member team one that could hamstring future research.
ByMalcolm Browne.SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, indentists' chairs and over dinner, the continuing news about bothViagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change inthe way many Americans speak about a subject that some would preferbe barely spoken about at all.
In recent months, the subject of sexand the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a fewinches closer to the conversationally commonplace.
By Janny Scott.WAR-CENTENIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot ofclanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps someminor historical revisionism.
The 1898 observation, now under wayin Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a toughone.
So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplatehow we got from there to here.
By Timothy Egan.
(1500 words)RAC-BELMONT (New York) In Saturday's running of the BelmontStakes, Real Quiet will try to become the 12th winner of the TripleCrown, an achievement that horse racing has been waiting 20 yearsfor.
By Joseph Durso.BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweighttitle fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off afterAkinwande tested positive for hepatitis B.
This follows a femalefighter being disqualified because she was pregnant.
If the cardgoes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will bethe headliner.
It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in asports facility that pledged to get back into the business.OBIT-POVICH (Undated) Shirley Povich, a member of the writerswing of baseball's Hall of Fame and whose career as a sports writercovered more than 75 years at The Washington Post, died of a heartattack.
He was 92.
By Ira Berkow.Ward Connerly has made quite a name for himself, his caramelbrown face now synonymous with the fight to end racial and genderpreferences.I turn the 58-year-old Connerly's words over in my mind andthink he's either asleep or mad.What reasonable man can deny based on declining minorityenrollment at both Texas and California universities thatadmissions based solely on test scores exclude most minoritystudents?In 1995, Connerly won his fight to ban affirmative action at theUniversity of California.
A year later, voters even supported himwhen he headed the Proposition 209 initiative to end the practicein all state and local government programs in California.But this is not the time to eliminate the one tool we have tohelp level the playing field for many minority youths.
Luckily,politicians elsewhere like U.S. Rep. J.C. Watts, R-Okla. haverecognized this and have backed away from such proposals.Connerly, a University of California regent and businessman,seems nice enough.
He has worked hard to get where he is, onceworking for 65 cents an hour to help keep a roof over his head.But Connerly's contention that there is no greater insult thanto be accepted into college or given a job because of one's skincolor is wrong.
The greater insult would be to not be given thejob, to not be admitted to college at all, because of your color.Because of preferences, minorities like Connerly and, I shouldalso add, white women have been afforded opportunities they wouldnot have otherwise had.What hasn't changed is the fact that too many minorities are alltoo willing to be used by white racists to obscure mean andsocially harmful agendas.
That allows them a program that wouldotherwise be characterized as bald racism were it not decoratedwith a self-loathing black face.It was true in the past, throughout slavery and the civil rightsmovement.
It is true now.
And I suspect, sadly, it will always betrue.For reasons that escape me, minorities have always been thisway, operating like crabs in a barrel.
A decent one will rise to aposition of power, where he is able to help those less fortunate,only to then refuse in order to score points with his white bossor, in some cases, just because he sees tokenism as job security.That mindset has to change.
Something terrible afflicts a peoplewho are unable or unwilling to help, to advocate on behalf of thosewho are unable to do their own bidding.It doesn't mean that you're anti-white; it simply means you'rewilling to put other's needs before your own, that you're willingto give up something big for something good.Maybe Connerly is kidding.
Or maybe he just doesn't know thatthis is precisely the way opponents of affirmative action wouldhave him think.
(Gracie Bonds Staples is a columnist for the Fort WorthStar-Telegram.
Send e-mail to gbs(at)star-telegram.com.
Visit theStar-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:www.star-telegram.com)That landmark 1976 film, an eerily prescient satire, starredWilliam Holden and Faye Dunaway as Machiavellian network executiveswho exploit the insanity of a news anchor (Peter Finch) in theirquest for higher ratings.
Finch's character is an unwitting tool inthe network's plan, a human pawn whose individuality is abused, andsubsumed, by the media that bore him.
He's trapped in the theaterof television.The stars in the sky are stagelights in the film's first scene,one of them crashes at Truman's foot.Truman's escapades are intercut with shots of Joe Sixpacksnesting in front of the tube: zaftig ladies on a couch, nightwatchmen, tipsy bar patrons, a guy bobbing in a bathtub.
They watchTruman; we watch Truman; we watch them watching Truman.They watch because they're lured by the mundane dramas of hislife, and by television's seductive powers to hold them.
We watchbecause we're seduced as well.But the film becomes most unnerving when Truman starts watchingus, when he finally realizes he's the object of unseen, cunningeyes.
It's not a sudden epiphany Weir's movie unspools gradually,establishing the artifice of Truman's world before breaking it downentirely.
He, and we, see clues to the trickery around him: a tearin the sky, a cloudburst that rains on him alone, a weddingphotograph in which his wife is crossing her fingers.Carrey is an ideal match for Truman, because his raging comicsensibility has always carried with it a hint of innocence there'sa childlike purity to his talent, a foolish abandon that recallsCharlie Chaplin's Little Tramp.
And although he never meets hismaker, a cool media magnate played by Ed Harris, Truman is verymuch a son in the biblical mold.
He's Adam, maybe Isaac, possiblyJesus.
He is the created in a dance with his creator.In 1928, the year Herbert Hoover whipped Al Smith for presidentand made the world safe for Depression, an English physicist namedPaul A.M. (no doubt a morning-type of fellow) Dirac predicted theexistence of antimatter.
For each particle of ordinary matter in the cosmos, he said,like your electron and your proton and so forth, there is anantiparticle with the same mass but with an opposite charge.
(Thisprobably won't even make sense later, so don't worry about itmaking sense now.)
To be specific, Dirac said if there's an electron (which asyou surely remember from grammar school subatomic physics class carries a negative charge), the world's symmetry almost screams forthere to be a positively charged electron somewhere, which we nowknow as a positron.
The reason we know it as a positron now is that scientists haveproduced it in laboratories (which makes you wonder what elsethey're doing in there).
Anyway, all these antimatter particles, in theory, could formantimatter versions of visible matter.
Which would mean antistars(like Sean Penn?
), antiplanets and even antihumans, several ofwhom, I swear, are drive-through window clerks at some of thefast-food restaurants I patronize.
Some scientists theorize that there may be whole antigalaxies indistant space.
And that from these antigalaxies (or, anyway, fromsome antiwhere) a few antimatter particles may get flung at Earthfrom time to time.
So they've sent up high-altitude balloons bearing detectors tofind them.
And these detectors have turned up a few antiprotonscoming from cosmic rays.
But, on the whole, the search has beensort of disappointing.
Now, however, a three-ton antimatter detector called the AlphaMagnetic Spectrometer (its friends call it AMS, though had it beenup to me I'd have jiggled the letters so it could be SAM) is on ashakedown cruise, preparing to spend 2002 to 2005 connected to thenew International Space Station.
The space shuttle Discovery recently carried the AMS into orbit,and for a few more days the AMS is supposed to hang around theshuttle's payload bay, trying to detect any antimatter particlesthat may dance by.
An international team of scientists from 37 researchinstitutions collaborated on the AMS, led by Samuel C.C.
Ting, aphysics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
(Paul A.M. Dirac, Samuel C.C.
Ting.
There's some kind of strangedouble middle initial thing going on with antimatter scientists.Perhaps some linguists and scientists will obtain a huge governmentgrant to study the phenomenon.
I so-so hope.)
One of the problems in trying to study antimatter is that itdoesn't seem to exist for very long.
Anytime it gets close tomatter, both the matter and the antimatter annihilate themselvesand, in turn, produce huge amounts of energy.
It's a process thatreminds me of some celebrity marriages.
You have been quite patient until now not to demand to knowwhether antimatter is the same as dark matter, which is whatscientists call all the unseen (so far) mass in the universe.
Well,no.
They are not the same thing.
But if dark matter has the symmetry to consist of both matterand antimatter, as it may, scientists hope the AMS will help themunderstand dark matter better.
And speaking of the exquisitebalance of symmetry, please notice that I began this column withthe Depression and ended it with dark matter.
Am I good or what?
The new version (Windows; about $35-$40) goes beyond being justanother program that picks the route and spits out maps.
It hassome interesting features not found in other programs.For those with 3Com's popular PalmPilot handheld computer, theprogram allows users to send directions from the software directlyto the PalmPilot.
It also allows users to place photographs on amap a handy feature if you want to indicate landmarks for turningpoints.
(Lonnie Brown is associate editor of The Ledger in Lakeland,Fla.
He can be reached by e-mail at LonnieB001(AT)aol.com.
Anarchive of his recent computer columns is on the Internet athttp://www.theledger.com/data.htm.
)On balance, I'd have to say that the fads of today aren't nearlyas annoying as the fads of years past.Oh, sure, the sight of a sullen, 21-year-old convenience storeclerk fingering his eyebrow rings is almost enough to make myrethink my opposition to mandatory sterilization.
And the way somemen my age and older pull what few remaining hairs they have leftback into those pathetic little ponytails makes me think that wemight save everyone a lot of time and trouble if we forget aboutSocial Security reform and, instead, just have us leap off a highcliff once we turn 40 or buy our first toupee, whichever comesfirst.Flagpole sitting and goldfish swallowing were fads that had thecommon courtesy to die out quickly.
Bumper stickers show no sign ofgoing away soon, and we can blame it all on a few well-intentionedparents in 1985 who thought they were promoting highway safety.
(You can bet we won't make that mistake again!
)Truckers and ordinary drivers yakked back and forth to eachother to find out which gas stations were open and selling gas.
(Ah, the good old days.)
It wouldn't have been so bad if that wasall there was to it, but, of course, it wasn't.Sure, it's some of the dumbest, shoddiest, most useless junkever to defile our planet but, heck, it might be worth somethingsomeday.
Especially if any of those things ever become popularagain.
Think about that.NEW YORK Outside the Metropolitan Club on East 60th Street theother day, a line of tan and entitled-looking guests waited to beadmitted to a showing of John Galliano's first fur collection.As a group, impeccably dressed and speaking Italian, French andFashionese, they looked like sitting ducks for animal-rightsadvocates.
Yet, no disturbances ensued, in part because the staffof Christian Dior (Galliano is Dior's designer) had not deliveredinvitations announcing the location until the last minute.Given the buzz (both Madonna and the artist formerly known asPrince had requested tickets, though neither appeared), the sceneat the door was relatively serene.
In addition to buyers, editors,investors and the social types one associates with Dior and withfur (including Jocelyne Wildenstein), many young fashion followerswere at hand, egged on, perhaps, by the media's current fur frenzy.After 300 guests passed by security guards who pawed throughtheir bags, they stood around in the club's monumental marbleentrance hall (completed by Stanford White in 1894) waiting to goupstairs.
Since it was the first time Galliano was bringing hisflamboyant style of fashion show and his Mediterranean sense oftime to New York, the crowd didn't seem to mind waiting for anhour.To amuse and sedate them, there was wine, heaping piles offruit, trays of canapes, and a harpsichordist under the vaultedceiling.
There was also Anna Wintour, fur's big champion, lookingdown at the crowd in her sunglasses, like some kind of masterpuppeteer, from atop a grand marble staircase.
And if that wasn'tenough, several nearly naked, androgynous male models werelounging, Casanova-style, on banisters and benches.
One waslounging on the floor.While the guests waited downstairs, two immense banquet roomsupstairs, once used by Vanderbilts, Whitneys and Roosevelts, werebeing readied for seating.
They had been artfully trashed to createa Casanova-has-been-here look with period furniture strewn withflower petals, talcum powder, costume jewelry, and dirty wineglasses.
There was a canopied bed festooned with wreaths of flowersand one long banquet table that looked as if it had just beenvacated by Madame de Pompadour, Rousseau, Louis XV and othermembers of Casanova's coterie.
One male model was lying on top ofthe table, biding his time by eating grapes.After everyone was seated, the show (inspired, of course, byCasanova) began, and it was worth the wait.
Galliano's standouts,produced for Dior by Stallion Inc., included sheared minks in blackand white inlaid geometric patterns; silk kimono coats with silverfox collars and cuffs, Poiret-inspired sable day coats lined withhandmade silk roses; pastel-colored chinchilla wraps, and broadtaillamb wasp-waisted suits.
In the new tradition of fur for thefashion-forward, many were casual and light enough to wear whenchasing fur protesters or paparazzi down the street.Some of the coats, which Galliano said he designed to reflectromance, not wealth, were worn over lingerie.
As usual with aGalliano show, half the fun was in the presentation.
To show thecoats, models passed through, fanned themselves and flounced about,taking tipsy, uncertain steps, as if they were in an absinthestupor.
They didn't seem to be straining for effect.
Neither didthe male models who traipsed around caressing both the furs andwomen and occasionally licking frosting off their fingers.The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories forSaturday and Sunday.
If you have questions, please call Susie McBeeor Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.
For questions about sports stories,please call the Houston Chronicle Sports Department, 713-220-7896.CLINTON-INVESTIGATION (Washington) A federal appeals court,responding to requests to speed up hearings in special prosecutorKenneth Starr's investigation of President Clinton, agrees to hearthe case this month.
By JOHN C. HENRY.BUDGET-LIMITS (Washington) The House approves a Republicanplan to cut spending by $101 billion and to reduce taxes by thesame amount through 2003.
By GREG MCDONALD.BORDER-SHOOTING (Washington) Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, saysthe House immigration subcommittee may hold a hearing next monthinto the death of a young Texas man who was herding goats near theRio Grande.
The man was shot dead by a Marine counter-narcoticspatrol a year ago.
By GARY MARTIN.TOBACCO-MONEY (Washington) When she first ran for the Senate,Kay Bailey Hutchison was heavily dependent on contributions fromBig Tobacco.
But she has since kicked the habit, joining a numberof lawmakers trying to distance themselves from the industry.
ByBENNETT ROTH.SUICIDE-RENO (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno decidesnot to go after doctors in Oregon who assist with suicides asallowed by state law.
She says there is no federal prohibition thatwould block the Oregon law.
By STEVE LASH.HOLOCAUST-REUNION (Washington) Survivors of the Holocaust holda reunion here this weekend to mark the 60th anniversary of thetransportation of nearly 10,000 Jewish children from Germany,Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland to Britain.
The journey savedthe children, many of whom never saw their parents again, from theNazi death camps.
By EUN LEE KOH.CLINTON-COMPUTERS (Boston, Mass.)
In a commencement address atthe Massachusetts Institute of Technology, President Clintonchallenges states to make computer literacy mandatory formiddle-school students.
By NANCY MATHIS.KID-TRIAL (Dallas) Sentencing is expected for the 11-year-oldboy convicted of sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl.
Thefourth-grader could be incarcerated for 40 years.
Two younger boys,ages 8 and 7, could not be prosecuted because of their ages.
By JIMHENDERSON.MEXICO-FIRES (Mexico City) Light rain throughout Mexico ishelping reduce the number of wildfires, but the heavy rains neededto douse the largest blazes may not come until next month, U.S.relief officials says.
By PHILIP TRUE.BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) Advance on Game 3 of the NBA Finals,which will switch to Chicago after the first two games are playedin Utah on Wednesday and Friday.
By EDDIE SEFKO.SOLOMON-ASSESS (Washington) When Rep. Gerald B.H.
Solomon tookover as the first Republican chairman of the powerful House RulesCommittee since 1954, he said his goal was to be fair to theDemocrats.
Now, as he plans his retirement after three years in thepost, he assesses his progress in achieving that goal.
By JUDYHOLLAND.ATTORNEY-CLIENT-PRIVILEGE (Washington) Does theattorney-client privilege of confidentiality die with the client?The Supreme Court takes up that question Monday when it hearsarguments from lawyers for Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr andattorneys representing the lawyer of the late deputy White Housecounsel, Vincent Foster Jr. By MARK HELM.
(Filed Thursday)TEXAS-REPUBLICANS (Austin, Texas) With grand plans for thefall election in mind, state Republican stalwarts gather in FortWorth this week to kick off what they hope will be a historic yearin Texas politics.
What once was unthinkable is now within reachfor the Texas GOP: a sweep of the statewide elected offices,gaining control of the Texas House for the first time in more than120 years and keeping its slim majority in the Texas Senate.
ByLAURA TOLLEY.ARAFAT-HAMAS (Gaza City, Gaza Strip) For three months,Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has watched warily while apolitical rival, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of themilitant Hamas movement, has been received almost like a head ofstate by nearly a dozen Islamic countries.
Most analysts agree thatthe warm reception Yassin has received represents a fresh challengeto Arafat's rule.
By DEBORAH HORAN.SECURITY-FRANCE (Undated) As France prepares to welcome theworld for the World Cup soccer competition beginning Wednesday, thecountry's biggest concern is security.
With thousands of rowdysoccer fans pouring into the country and in the wake of a rash ofrecent terrorist threats France is implementing unprecedentedsecurity measures.
JOHN P. LOPEZ.KOSOVO-SERBIA (Paris) The effort by the internationalcommunity, including the United States, to lean on Serbia over itsharsh treatment of the Albanian minority in the province of Kosovois ill-advised and probably has made matters worse.
By BERNARD D.KAPLAN.THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) Barry Goldwater was a poorpresidential candidate, but he was certainly one of the mostmemorable of the also-rans.
By ROBERT E. THOMPSON.Workers will build 55,000 old-style Volkswagen Beetles here thisyear.
All are for the domestic market, where they are the backboneof motoring for Mexico's middle-class.Volkswagen has succeeded in raising the level of emotion aroundits product.
Auto dealers can't get the round little autos in theirshops fast enough to keep up with demand.Here on the assembly line, that means 16-hour days for EverardoRodriguez, a team leader overseeing quality control.
Being a partof Beetle history is worth it, Rodriguez said.The factory has boosted production by 13 percent since May,pumping out 450 new Beetles per day.
Sportier models with heatedseats and computerized maps for the European market are next on theagenda.Michael Wijers, a spokesman for Volkswagen of Mexico, said thecompany needed to rebuild its name in the United States.The automaker's U.S. sales hit bottom in 1993, selling just44,000 units because of slow production in the Puebla factory,Fiorani said.
It was a far cry from 1968, when the Beetle alonesold 423,000 units.Response to the new Beetle concept car at the 1994 Detroit tradefair was enthusiastic.
The question: Where to build this car withso much riding on it?Proximity to the American market made Puebla, with a plant eastof Mexico City that employs 15,800 workers, the sensible choicelogistically.
In addition, the New Beetle is built on the same autoplatform as the VW Jetta and the Golf, which also are made inPuebla.The average wage for a basic-level line worker is about $93 aweek for a six-day, 48-hour workweek in Mexico, compared to $632 atVolkswagen-Germany's 29-hour, four-day workweek.Volkswagen officials point to the much higher tax rate Germanworkers must pay, plus the disparity in living costs in a highlyindustrialized economy versus those in a developing economy.Wijers touted the benefits package that accompanies the wage,the on-campus cafeterias that serve food at a discount, and the 40buses that shuttle workers to and from their jobs at no cost.Puebla city leaders say having Volkswagen here helps curb thephenomenon endemic in a nation where half the population livesbelow the poverty level, and whose citizens must trek to the borderor Mexico City to seek work.Volkswagen invested $1 billion to expand its plant to producethe new Beetle.
Some 26 suppliers, half of them internationalcompanies, are located in an industrial park nearby.On the manufacturing line, workers gingerly guide anoctopus-like spot-welder to tack some of the 3,000 welds that gointo the car.At the finish line, an army of new Beetles in brilliant red,yellow, blue and silver colors inch forward silently on nearlymotionless conveyer belts.Here is one of the few places women workers are seen, touchingup the lacquer on the trunk locks with paintbrushes.In a nearby building on the 30,000-acre Volkswagen campus, thetraditional Beetle is still built 80 percent of the work done byhand.A company official said the plant is the only one in the worldwhere body and chassis are built separately and then attached.At about $7,500, with government subsidized tax-relief on 20percent of the car's value, the traditional Beetle is the mostaffordable new car in the Mexican market.
The wee air-cooled engineis attached to the Bug's caboose with four simple bolts, makingmaintenance easy.None of the Beetles produced here this year will be exported.Instead, they will serve across the country as taxicabs, first carsfor middle-class boys, family autos for working-class parents, andcompany vehicles for small businesses.For many, the VW Bug is basic transportation.
But, as Wijerssaid, it's also a deeply ingrained feature of Mexican culturalhistory.Beetle sales last year in Mexico fell to 35,000.
It may havebeen the effects of the 1995 peso crisis, but Wijers theorized thatwould-be Beetle buyers were waiting to see if the new model wouldbe in their price range.Nevertheless, the $17,500 retail price of the new Beetle puts itway out of the price range for most Mexicans.North of the Rio Grande, too, the Beetle is not about affordabletransportation but about a lifestyle choice.NEW YORK On a sunny morning last week, Bonnie Pressman sat inher office on the 10th floor of a gleaming Fifth Avenue tower.
Theblack-matte telephone on her desk looked big enough to route thecalls of a small city, and it wouldn't stop beeping and mewling.Two assistants hovered by the door, impatient to escort her to ameeting, while the noise of a jackhammer rose from the street.But Ms. Pressman, the executive vice president and fashiondirector of Barneys New York, ignored the phone, asked an assistantto shut the door and stalled the waiting suits in a conferenceroom.Ms.
Pressman belongs to the growing number of trendsetters onthe East and West Coasts high-profile people from the worlds offashion, entertainment and society who have taken passages toIndia, following to their source the popular interest in yoga, thewritings of Deepak Chopra and the blissed-out look in fashion andcosmetics.
Although Ms. Pressman discovered India through a medicalemergency, many others seem simply to be carried on the winds ofthe latest trend.When Marie-Anne Oudejans, the designer who founded the fashionhouse Tocca, abruptly resigned two months ago, surprising thefashion world and leaving no forwarding number, it was to Udaipurthat she disappeared for 10 days.
The junior jet setter Lulu deKwiatkowski visited India in the spring, and Stephan deKwiatkowski, her brother, goes once a year.
The models Kate Mossand Naomi Campbell stored up reserves of equanimity in Rajasthanfor the hectic ready-to-wear shows in March.
Ms. Campbell wasaccompanied by Didier Fernandez, a booker who until recently workedat Elite.Of course, Western fascination with Indian culture has gone incycles for a long time.
Ever since Alexander the Great marched intonorthern India in 326 B.C.
to persuade a yogi to return to Greecewith him (the yogi declined, preferring instead to immolate himselfon a funeral pyre), Westerners have periodically sought yogiccounsel.
The potential threat of nuclear jousting between Pakistanand India does not seem to have dimmed the latest culturalinfatuation.The most hard-core recent visitors Sting, the director AndreGregory, the actors Meg Ryan and Betty Buckley, the Hong Kongclothing impresario Joyce Ma and the social figure Anne DexterJones are devotees not only of India, but also of the ashramexperience.Among the ashrams particularly popular with Americans is oneoutside Bombay in Ganeshpuri founded by Swami Muktananda, who wasinfluential among the Eastern teachers who came to the UnitedStates in the 1960s and '70s.
The ashram is now run by GurumayiChidvilasananda, known to her followers simply as Gurumayi.Her affiliated ashram in South Fallsburg, N.Y., the SYDAFoundation (the acronym stands for Siddha Yoga Dham of America),has attracted Meg Ryan, the hair stylist John Frieda and theManhattan socialite Mica Ertegun.
Gurumayi's high profile isfurther insured by the encouragement of visitors to her ashram tocarry her beatific portrait; it comes in a handy wallet size.Anne Dexter Jones, the style editor of Hamptons Countrymagazine, who is married to Mick Jones of the '70s rock bandForeigner, said that she had noticed her own interest in the ashramexperience, and in India, picking up recently.Jessica Tuck, a Los Angeles actress, is planning her first visitto an ashram.
She studies meditation at the Los Angeles BabaCenter, which is named for Sai Baba, and is planning to go to SaiBaba's ashram in November.Ms.
Pressman meditates twice a day.
She says she is in goodhealth.
Her peaches-and-cream complexion puts peaches and cream toshame.
She has given up eating meat, smoking cigarettes anddrinking coffee.
Barneys is planning to introduce the opulent,Indian-inspired design collection of Colette Dinnigan in the fall,and the photographs of runway models in bolts of bright fabriclittered Ms. Pressman's Yugo-size desk.HOUSE-BUDGET (Washington) The House is to vote on a budgetresolution with huge tax and spending cuts, putting it on acollision course not only with its own appropriators but with theSenate and the Clinton administration, guaranteeing a big budgetfight later in the year.
By Richard W. Stevenson.CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) The Senate Intelligence Committeeresumes closed-door hearings on Chinese satellite technology,trying to resolve with Attorney General Reno and FBI director Freeha dispute over classified documents the committee wants.
By EricSchmitt.GM-STRIKE (Flint, Mich.) About 3,400 UAW workers went onstrike at a key General Motors parts plant here, protesting whatthey see as a lack of investment in the area and company plans tosend work outside the area.
If the strike lasts a week, half ofGM's plants in the country will shut down because of lack of parts.UTAH-POLICE-SLAYING (Bluff, Utah) One fugitive survivalistsought for the killing of a Colorado policeman was found dead witha bullet wound between the eyes, and the authorities hope they havethe other two suspects surrounded today in a nearby canyon.
Thiscommunity of 300 has been evacuated since Thursday afternoon.
By JoThomas.NY-FLIGHT-DELAYS (New York) A breakdown in the the air trafficcontrol computer system causes delays of up to two hours atregion's airports, with resulting effects around the country.KOSOVO-NATO (Washington) On Kosovo, there is much NATOhand-wringing about what to do, but little stomach for sending introops.
Restored sanctions aimed at Serbia are likely.
By StevenErlanger.KOREA-U.S. (Seoul) Kim Dae-jung, the former dissident and whois now president of South Korea, returns to the United States onSaturday, to a much better reception.
By Nicolas D. Kristof.IRAQ-U.N. (United Nations) Iraq's foreign minister holds anews conference to comment on the two days of briefings by armsinspectors.
By Barbara Crossette.ECON-REPORT (Undated) The economy added more jobs thanexpected in May, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at a28-year low of 4.3 percent.
Payrolls expanded by 296,000 peoplelast month, exceeding forecasts of a gain of about 220,000.
April'semployment gain was revised upward to 302,000 from the initialestimate of 262,000.
By Sylvia Nasar.INTERNET-U.S. (Undated) Ira Magaziner will announce the WhiteHouse's new proposal for overhauling the Internet's naming andaddress system.
The proposal will refine a plan announced earlierthis year to turn over management of the system to the privatesector and stimulate competition for registering new Internetaddresses.
By Amy Harmon.NEUTRINO-FUNDS (Takayama, Japan) As Japanese and Americanscientists basked in the glow of their monumental discovery ofneutrino mass announced here on Friday, a financial cloud hung overthe 120-member team one that could hamstring future research.
ByMalcolm Browne.SEX-CONVERSATION (Undated) In corporate conference rooms, indentists' chairs, and over dinner, the continuing news about bothViagra and Monica Lewinsky appears to have accelerated a change inthe way many Americans speak about a subject that some would preferbe barely spoken about at all.
In recent months, the subject of sexand the language of sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a fewinches closer to the conversationally commonplace.
By Janny Scott.WAR-CENTENNIAL (Undated) Centennials usually call for a lot ofclanking celebration, a period souvenir or two and perhaps someminor historical revisionism.
The 1898 observation, now under wayin Spain, Cuba, the Philippines and the United States, is a toughone.
So much was set in motion that it is difficult to contemplatehow we got from there to here.
By Timothy Egan.BOX-FIGHT-CANCELED (New York) Evander Holyfield's heavyweighttitle fight against Henry Akinwande appears to be off afterAkinwande tested positive for hepatitis B.
This follows a femalefighter being disqualified because she was pregnant.
If the cardgoes off at all, Roberto Duran, the 47-year-old Panamanian, will bethe headliner.
It all amounts to boxing's comedy of errors in asports facility that pledged to get back into the business.An anti-terrorism consortium formed in 1978, it is such afar-reaching, massive association that in 20 years, the Vigipiratehas felt the need to go into action only three times.The first operation was in early 1991 at the outbreak of thePersian Gulf War.
The second came in September 1995, following aseries of bombings and a bloody attack on a Jewish school insouthern France.Perhaps nothing better illustrates security concerns regardingthe upcoming worldwide soccer extravaganza than the lengths towhich French and neighboring European leaders are going in anattempt to avoid disaster.Last month, the Vigipirate took part in synchronized pre-dawnraids at 10 locations across France, arresting 88 suspectedterrorists, said to represent the Algerian Armed Islamic Group, whoofficials believe were targeting the World Cup.Traditionally, it is the ultimate quadrennial championship ofthe world's favorite game, a five-week showcase of spectacularathleticism, color and culture.The 1998 World Cup, which is expected to draw nearly 2.5 millionpeople to France and attract a cumulative television audience ofmore than 30 billion, begins Tuesday and concludes with thechampionship game July 12 in Saint Denis, a quaint city just northof Paris.There will be 64 matches in 10 French cities involving 32nations, 10,000 members of the media, every form of mass transport,countless open-air parties and hundreds of organized events forfans.
Numerous world figures will attend, from heads of state tointernational royalty to television and movie personalities.Thus, concern about potential security problems for the WorldCup goes far beyond the typical drunkenness and soccer hooliganism.World Cup organizers are bracing for the unknown up to andincluding terrorism.Four years ago, when the World Cup was held in the UnitedStates, simple geography aided security forces.
It was difficultfor much of the world to arrive in the United States by anythingbut airplane.
Since airport security forces easily dispatched orarrested known thugs or terrorist sympathizers as they tried toenter the country, problems were held to a minimum.But in France, the estimated 2.5 million people expected towatch the event will be arriving en masse from every direction,using planes, ships, trains and automobiles.Each national team participating in the tournament will beprotected by the elite French RAID police.
Many teams, includingthe U.S. team, will bring their own security personnel.There also will be more than 5,000 plainclothes members of theFrench security force roaming venues and cities.
On game days, theFrench Interior Ministry will deploy up to 6,000 police officers tostadium sites.World Cup security officials hope that efforts such as lastmonth's pre-emptive strike against the Algerian Armed Islamic Groupwill avert potential terrorism by sending a signal that terroristgroups are being monitored.Regarding the most common threat at international soccermatches, fan violence, security leaders appear to be happy withtheir strategy but unhappy with World Cup ticketing and otherpolicies.In fact, the system for ticket sales might even encouragerowdiness, some believe.
Nearly 90 percent of all tickets for theCup were sold to the French.
The idea was to simultaneously givethe home team an edge while limiting the number of tickets topotential troublemakers from abroad.Much of the world criticized France's ticketing policy from themoment it was implemented.
The exceptions were ticket brokers andscalpers.
Already, brokers reportedly have sold more than 20,000tickets to English fans alone, at prices up to 40 times their facevalue.
Fans from Italy, Germany, The Netherlands and Spain arescooping up scalped tickets at a record pace, too.The result could be that instead of fans being grouped bynationality at events, they will be mixed together, potentially anexplosive situation.Security personnel also are lamenting the organizers' decisionto send each team to three different cities for first-roundmatches.
Usually, each team plays a pair of matches in one city anda third elsewhere, which encourages fans to establish a home baseof sorts.This summer, with fans from rival countries mixing daily attrain stations and airports, more dangerous clashes could occur.Most every security decision at stadiums clearly was made withthe most notorious offenders in mind the English and Dutch.
TheEnglish federation is expected to bring a large group of Britishpolice to every game, with each officer carrying portfolios onringleaders.Some English and Dutch matches also will not be shown on giantscreens erected outside of stadiums, which will be the normelsewhere, in an effort to discourage ticketless thugs from showingup in an area where there is sure to be stifling heat and cheapwine in abundance.CLINTON-INVESTIGATION (Washington) A federal appeals court,responding to requests to speed up hearings in special prosecutorKenneth Starr's investigation of President Clinton, agrees to hearthe case this month.
By JOHN C. HENRY.BUDGET-LIMITS (Washington) The House approves a Republicanplan to cut spending by $101 billion and to reduce taxes by thesame amount through 2003.
By GREG MCDONALD.BORDER-SHOOTING (Washington) Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, saysthe House immigration subcommittee may hold a hearing next monthinto the death of a young Texas man who was herding goats near theRio Grande.
The man was shot dead by a Marine counter-narcoticspatrol a year ago.
By GARY MARTIN.TOBACCO-MONEY (Washington) When she first ran for the Senate,Kay Bailey Hutchison was heavily dependent on contributions fromBig Tobacco.
But she has since kicked the habit, joining a numberof lawmakers trying to distance themselves from the industry.
ByBENNETT ROTH.SUICIDE-RENO (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno decidesnot to go after doctors in Oregon who assist with suicides asallowed by state law.
She says there is no federal prohibition thatwould block the Oregon law.
By STEVE LASH.HOLOCAUST-REUNION (Washington) Survivors of the Holocaust holda reunion here this weekend to mark the 60th anniversary of thetransportation of nearly 10,000 Jewish children from Germany,Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland to Britain.
The journey savedthe children, many of whom never saw their parents again, from theNazi death camps.
By EUN LEE KOH.CLINTON-COMPUTERS (Boston, Mass.)
In a commencement address atthe Massachusetts Institute of Technology, President Clintonchallenges states to make computer literacy mandatory formiddle-school students.
By NANCY MATHIS.KID-TRIAL (Dallas) Sentencing is expected for the 11-year-oldboy convicted of sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl.
Thefourth-grader could be incarcerated for 40 years.
Two younger boys,ages 8 and 7, could not be prosecuted because of their ages.
By JIMHENDERSON.MEXICO-FIRES (Mexico City) Light rain throughout Mexico ishelping reduce the number of wildfires, but the heavy rains neededto douse the largest blazes may not come until next month, U.S.relief officials says.
By PHILIP TRUE.KOSOVO-SERBIA (Paris) The effort by the internationalcommunity, including the United States, to lean on Serbia over itsharsh treatment of the Albanian minority in the province of Kosovois ill-advised and probably has made matters worse.
By BERNARD D.KAPLAN.BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) Advance on Game 3 of the NBA Finals,which will switch to Chicago after the first two games are playedin Utah on Wednesday and Friday.
By EDDIE SEFKO.SOLOMON-ASSESS (Washington) When Rep. Gerald B.H.
Solomon tookover as the first Republican chairman of the powerful House RulesCommittee since 1954, he said his goal was to be fair to theDemocrats.
Now, as he plans his retirement after three years in thepost, he assesses his progress in achieving that goal.
By JUDYHOLLAND.ATTORNEY-CLIENT-PRIVILEGE (Washington) Does theattorney-client privilege of confidentiality die with the client?The Supreme Court takes up that question Monday when it hearsarguments from lawyers for Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr andattorneys representing the lawyer of the late deputy White Housecounsel, Vincent Foster Jr. By MARK HELM.
(Filed Thursday)TEXAS-REPUBLICANS (Austin, Texas) With grand plans for thefall election in mind, state Republican stalwarts gather in FortWorth this week to kick off what they hope will be a historic yearin Texas politics.
What once was unthinkable is now within reachfor the Texas GOP: a sweep of the statewide elected offices,gaining control of the Texas House for the first time in more than120 years and keeping its slim majority in the Texas Senate.
ByLAURA TOLLEY.ARAFAT-HAMAS (Gaza City, Gaza Strip) For three months,Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has watched warily while apolitical rival, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of themilitant Hamas movement, has been received almost like a head ofstate by nearly a dozen Islamic countries.
Most analysts agree thatthe warm reception Yassin has received represents a fresh challengeto Arafat's rule.
By DEBORAH HORAN.SECURITY-FRANCE (Undated) As France prepares to welcome theworld for the World Cup soccer competition beginning Wednesday, thecountry's biggest concern is security.
With thousands of rowdysoccer fans pouring into the country and in the wake of a rash ofrecent terrorist threats France is implementing unprecedentedsecurity measures.
JOHN P. LOPEZ.THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) Barry Goldwater was a poorpresidential candidate, but he was certainly one of the mostmemorable of the also-rans.
By ROBERT E. THOMPSON.PARIS The effort by the international community, including theUnited States, to lean on Serbia over its harsh treatment of theethnic Albanians in its province of Kosovo is ill-advised andprobably has made matters worse.Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic isn't exactly the world'spolitical pinup, and Serbia's behavior since the breakup of the oldYugoslavia in the early 1990s has been reprehensible.But Kosovo isn't Bosnia, where Serbian military intervention hadthe clear marks of aggression from the outside.
Kosovo has been anintegral part of Serbia for centuries.
Indeed, Serbs regard it asthe historic core of their nation even though these days Kosovo'spopulation is mainly composed of ethnic Albanians.The situation in Kosovo is complex.
Where in the Balkans isn'tit?
But it is almost possible to sympathize with the thuggishMilosevic.Were he to yield to the Kosovo liberation movement, which seeksindependence as a step toward absorption by neighboring Albania, oreven grant autonomy to the province, he might as well pack hissuitcase and flee the country.
He would trigger a national uprisingwith many of his supposedly pro-democracy critics at home loudestin their denunciation of him.Milosevic could abandon the Bosnian Serbs as he did when hesigned the Dayton, Ohio, peace accord in November 1995 because hisown Serbs had turned sour on the Bosnian conflict following theimposition of international economic sanctions against them.
Butthere's no sign of them buckling under to sanctions over Kosovo.It's true that under the communist regime of the late Josef BrozTito, Kosovo possessed autonomy of sorts.
But Tito had nothing tofear.
He ruled all Yugoslavia with unquestioned authority, and theKosovo separatists knew they didn't stand a chance of gainingindependence.
An uprising in the Tito era would have beenunanimously condemned by the international community as increasingthe risk of a broader war.Today, Milosevic rules a rump Yugoslavia consisting only ofSerbia and tiny Montenegro.
In recent elections, even theMontenegrins challenged his power.So it's no wonder the Serbs view the Albanians' defiance and theoutside world's support for the rebels as tantamount to an attemptto atomize Serbia itself.Short of armed intervention by the United States and otherpowers, it is hard to envisage the Serbs ever giving in.
And, ofcourse, military intervention is unthinkable.
Serbia is a sovereignstate of which Kosovo forms a part.
Western indignation can producelittle practical result.There is an irony in the crisis that is seldom mentioned: TheAlbanians of Kosovo insist they want much closer ties with theirethnic brothers and sisters of Albania.But thousands of Albania's own citizens have fled to the West inrecent years, fed up with desperately impoverished livingconditions.
Closer relations with fellow ethnics is just about thelast thing on the Albanian refugees' minds.The incident occurred several years ago after a speech I made toa women's organization in Ridgewood.
I had just recalled an eveningtoward the end of the acrimonious 1964 political showdown whenBarry Goldwater, the Republican presidential nominee, took arespite from campaigning to present his delightful collection ofHopi Kachina dolls to a museum in Phoenix.The mellow candidate who appeared before his fellow Arizonansthat evening bore very little resemblance to the shoot-from-the-lipconservative whose public utterances and presidential nominationhad fractured the Republican Party and scared the daylights out ofmany Americans.In a short time, he had managed to alienate millions of peoplewho viewed him as something of a mad bomber who would ignitenuclear war.
He also lost the support of millions who depended onSocial Security, the Tennessee Valley Authority, recently-enactedcivil rights laws and other federal policies that he had attacked.The woman from Ridgewood was not alone among loyal Republicanswho voted for Barry Goldwater with trepidation.In the endless pageant of individuals questing for thepresidency, he occupies an unusual place.
He was a living paradox a colorful, outspoken westerner who was at once one of the 20thcentury's worst candidates and one of its most memorable also-rans.Like other defeated candidates such as Alf Landon in 1936,George McGovern in 1972, and Michael Dukakis in 1988, Goldwater rana poor campaign.
But like Wendell Willkie in 1940, Adlai Stevensonin 1852 and 1956 and Hubert Humphrey in 1968, he voiced opinionsand defined issues that left a lasting imprint on the republic.When the votes were counted in 1964, Goldwater had carried onlyArizona and five states of the Deep South.
Lyndon Johnson prevailedin the other 44 states and carried nearly two thirds of the popularvote while the Republicans were losing 38 seats in the House andtwo in the Senate.Conservatives contend that Goldwater was simply ahead of histime, and there may be some truth to that argument.
But the largertruth is that he was out of step with public sentiment in themid-1960s when a majority of Americans supported legislativeefforts to end legalized racial segregation and wanted to use theirgovernment as an instrument to improve conditions for the poor, theyoung and the aged.There can be no question, however, that Goldwater was thegodfather of the modern conservatism that eventually landed RonaldReagan in the White House.The Young Americans for Freedom who flocked to Goldwater'srallies in the 1960s were adult voters and campaign workers by the1980s.But Goldwater did not share their enthusiasm for the agenda oftoday's apostles of the religious right who would outlaw abortion,install organized prayer in public schools and refuse to grant gaysthe rights enjoyed by heterosexuals.A rugged man of the West who prized independence and freedom, hecould not march to the beat tapped out by Jerry Falwell, PatRobertson and their brethren who would have government dictateprivate conduct.Goldwater once said in an interview that among the men who hadserved in the White House during his years in politics he mostadmired Harry Truman.
Although they differed drastically on therole government should play in the lives of the people, he likedTruman's honesty and integrity and the way he spoke his mind.In the contentious summer of 1974, it was Goldwater who waschosen by his fellow Republicans to inform Nixon that if he did notresign, he would be convicted in the Senate of impeachment chargesvoted by the House.Although he was a staunch Republican, he prized his friendshipwith John Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey and other Democrats in theSenate.Some of us who covered his campaign wondered if Goldwater reallywanted to be president.
He did and said so many things that a manlusting for the Oval Office would not do and say.But he was a stubborn old desert rat who was determined to becandid with the voters even if him cost him the presidency.Goldwater, as president, probably would have tried to abolishmany of the New Deal reforms that people had come to cherish anddepend on.
And he would have failed.HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif.
Inside the laboratory of Drs.
Garthand Nancy Nicolson, a freezer is cracked open and a cloud of frostyvapor slowly dissolves to reveal row after row of metal boxes, theboxes filled with vials, the vials in turn filled with the blood ofGulf War veterans and their families.A few of those vials are being shipped to laboratories in anattempt to support or debunk one of the most controversial theoriesof Gulf War illness.They have treated a number of veterans, their families and theirown daughter with long-term antibiotic therapy.And last month, because of their work, the Department ofVeterans Affairs began planning a large, multicity study looking atthe effectiveness of antibiotic treatment in Gulf War veterans.The Nicolsons' theory of Gulf War illness has attracted ferventsupporters among some veterans and their families, and, untilrecently, skepticism and even scorn from the military and many inthe scientific community.In many of the soldiers, the mycoplasma appear to be geneticallyengineered to include a gene from HIV, the virus that causes AIDS,Nicolson said.
He believes that particular gene, called GP-120,could make it easier for the mycoplasma to target cells importantto the immune system.But the Nicolsons argue this infection hides deep in cells,rather than floating free in blood.
A test developed by NancyNicolson, called nuclear gene tracking, coupled with a techniquecalled forensic polymerase chain reaction, sniffs out the geneticcode of the mycoplasma infection, they say.Two civilian labs in California one private, anotherassociated with the University of California at Irvine havereported finding high levels of mycoplasma in Gulf War vets, aswell as in civilian patients with chronic fatigue syndrome andfibromyalgia, two other conditions with similar vague and multiplesymptoms.It might have ended there, but Nicolson's claims were heard bysome members of Congress, particularly Rep. Jack Metcalf, R-Wash.,and Rep. Norman D. Dicks, D-Wash.At their urging, the Department of Defense agreed last year totrain researchers at four laboratories in the Nicolsons' precisemethods.The researchers flew to Huntington Beach in January.
The groupincluded Dr. Joel Baseman, an internationally recognized mycoplasmaexpert and chairman of microbiology at the University of TexasHealth Science Center, and his staff.Baseman said trying to identify the cause of Gulf War illnessseven years after the war is an extraordinary challenge particularly given the growing list of possible exposures soldiersfaced, such as chemical agents, sand storms, oil fires and anthraxvaccines.Mycoplasma are unique among infectious organisms.
They are amongthe smallest of bacteria, and are unusual in that they lack a cellwall and depend on a host organism either plant or animal tosurvive.Mycoplasma strains were first linked to human infections in the1930s and 1940s.
They are a major cause of atypical pneumonia, andhave been isolated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, leukemia,urinary tract infections and AIDS.Garth Nicolson is a respected cancer researcher, who until 1996was the David Bruton Jr.
Chair in Cancer Research at the Universityof Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
His wife, Nancy,was an instructor in biophysics at Baylor College of Medicine.Their journey began in 1991, when Garth Nicolson's daughter,Sharron, returned from the Persian Gulf with health problems.
Shehad been a staff sergeant and crew chief of a Blackhawk helicopterwith the Army's 101st Airborne Division, and was completing pilottraining when she became ill.Her symptoms were typical of Gulf War illness.
Among them:fatigue, intermittent fever, joint and muscle pain and impairmentsin short-term memory.Nancy Nicolson found those symptoms familiar.
She had suffered asimilar illness in 1987 while working at Baylor, she said.
At thattime, she and her husband experimented with antibiotic treatmentthat eventually cured her illness.Some pro-choice groups want to make Rep. Kay Granger of Texasface the music, claiming she ain't dancing with them what brung herto the big party in Washington.Supporters for her challenger in November, Democrat Tom Hall,are trying to use the Republican congresswoman's voting record topaint her as anti-choice.Her detractors, including Hall, the Fort Worth attorney whofaces her in the general election, point to that record as evidenceof her kowtowing to Republican bigwigs inside the Texas delegationand out, rather than doing right by her moderately conservativedistrict.Without question, the former Fort Worth mayor has learned somefancy footwork that usually takes new members of Congress longer tomaster.
She sashayed up to House Speaker Newt Gingrich quicker thanyou can say Cotton-Eyed Joe, and it paid off in powerfulappointments and opportunities normally not bestowed on lowlyfreshmen.
The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee wasa coup for a rookie, as was her appointment to the House BudgetCommittee, where she fought hard to limit defense spending cuts.Her voting record can't be argued.
According to CongressionalQuarterly, Granger voted 95 percent of the time with her GOPcolleagues on party-line issues.
That should put to rest theconcerns by GOP leaders prior to her 1996 election that she mightnot be loyal to the Republicans.But Granger contends she has a realistic grasp on the moderateleanings of the 12th Congressional District a district thatfaithfully supported Pete Geren, a Democrat who on some issuescould out-conservative the Republicans.Hall has some complicated footwork ahead of him if he thinks hecan bump the immensely popular Granger from the floor.
Hissupporters are obviously hoping to woo pro-choice Republicans awayfrom her dance card.Granger's ready to dance with them what brung her, all right, aslong as they remember there are some steps she won't do.They also connected with the network of other Gulf War veteranswho had become ill.
In a study of 170 patients with Gulf Warillness, they found 76 with signs of mycoplasmal infections.
Theypublished their findings in occupational medicine journals anddescribed it in testimony before Congress and investigative panels.Wolf, who served with the Army Reserve's 920th transportationunit in Saudi Arabia, tested positive for mycoplasma infection, asdid his 12-year-old daughter.
He has undergone several cycles ofantibiotic treatment.When a mysterious cluster of illnesses was reported by residentsof Huntsville, Texas, the Nicolsons charged that DOD researchershad tested biologic agents containing mycoplasmas on Texasprisoners experiments that also sickened guards and localresidents.Nancy Nicolson was quoted in articles charging that U.S.operatives had broken into their lab and had tried to kill them onmultiple occasions.
They left Houston after Nicolson was strippedof his chairmanship at M.D.
Anderson, and set up their privatelaboratory in California.Today, with the government prepared to take a serious look attheir claims, the couple steers the conversation away fromconspiracy theories.Now, they are satisfied by the cooperation they're getting fromthe military, particularly since Army Gen. Hugh Shelton becamechairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Shelton, a Green Beret whowas an assistant division commander during the Gulf War, has beensupportive of their work, they say.The Nicolsons say that 75 percent of Gulf War veterans who testpositive for mycoplasma infection recover on long-term antibiotictreatment.
They also recommend nutrition therapy and other methodsto boost the immune system.Although dioxicycline, the antibiotic used by the Nicolsons, isa relatively benign one, such treatments can cause problems overtime, including gastrointestinal illness, painful mouth sores andvaginitis, Kilpatrick said.Nicolson, who first submitted grant proposals to the DOD fouryears ago, says he hasn't had the funds to conduct that kind ofresearch.
The couple took out a second mortgage on their home andare $450,000 in debt.
They have more than 600 frozen samples fromGulf vets they say they haven't been able to test because theycan't afford it.ALL -- HABITAT.
Rarely do Democrats and Republicans agree on howto solve homelessness, but this weekend representatives will castpartisanship aside and return to their districts to attack theproblem head on.
Armed with hammers and nails, lawmakers will workalongside local volunteers to help build a Habitat for Humanityhome for a poor family.
PrestonALASKA -- PILOTS.
The Federal Aviation Administration has agreedto hear arguments on why Alaska guide pilots should not be placedin the same class as commercial air taxis.
But guide pilotadvocates feel the new regulations will put them out of business,and that the move is too little too late.
(Working.)
GormanFLORIDA -- HABITAT.
Rarely do Democrats and Republicans agree onhow to solve homelessness, but this weekend three Miami Housemembers will cast aside partisan differences to attack the problemhead on.
Armed with hammers and nails, GOP Reps. LincolnDiaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen will join Democratic Rep.Carrie Meek and local volunteers to build a Habitat for Humanityhome Saturday in Liberty City.
Preston-- AMEND.
Reax from U.S. Reps. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., andLindsey Graham, R-S.C., to this afternoon's vote on aconstitutional amendment on public-school prayer (For insert intowire copy.)
Williams-- TRAIN.
Rep. Peter Visclosky, D-Ind., condemned the plannedmerger between CSX and Norfolk Southern railroad, saying the planwould congest traffic in Northwest Indiana and maybe cost lives.WolfbergMICHIGAN -- DINGELL.
Less than a week before the House takes upcampaign finance reform legislation, Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich.,unexpectedly threw his support behind a bipartisan bill, calling onfellow Democrats to shun a finance reform bill he had previouslyintroduced.
StebbinsOHIO -- ELECTRONIC-COMMERCE.
Rep. Mike Oxley, R-Findlay, held ahearing this morning on the future of electronic commerce and newmethods for making electronic purchases.
Interviewed Oxley on whathe sees as the issues involved in electronic commerce.
Will alsotalk to someone in the computer science department at OSU.
Eckstein-- DRUGS-IN-JAILS.
Reps.
Rob Portman (R-Terrace Park) and BillMcCollum (R-Fla.) will discuss new legislation to discourage highrates of drug abuse and recidivism in prisons.
Story will try toinclude insights from the members of the National Association ofDrug Court Professionals, the National Association of Police, theBuckeye State Sheriff Association in Columbus, Ohio, the Departmentof Corrections in Columbus and possibly some county drug officialin Cincinnati.
Some of these groups will attend the conference.HerardSOUTH CAROLINA -- SRS.
The Senate Appropriations Committee thisafternoon is expected to approve nearly $1.46 billion foroperations at the Savannah River Site for the coming fiscal year.(Working.)
WilliamsVIRGIN ISLANDS -- RULING.
A federal appeals court has denied amotion to suppress evidence in the case of a Virgin Islands ferryservice charged with dumping oil.
WilliamsVideo cameras roll, throwaway and sturdy Nikon cameras pointfrom one side to the other side of our open-air vehicle, herecalled a lollie.
Our guide and driver Clifford speaks in a clippedAfrican accent like the click, click, click of the cameras.We are driving through the Harambe Wildlife Preserve.
It's hot.Desert hot.
Perfect for a jungle safari.
Clifford pushes theaccelerator of Simba One to the floor so that we can get through adeep murky river that has spilled over from the waterfall in thedistance and out onto the road.
We and the other 32 passengersbounce up and down over rocky terrain.
Every once in a while drumand mbira a little figure piano play over small speakersinstalled on the ceiling of the open-air vehicle.
This occurs whena mammoth giraffe appears off in the distance.It isn't by chance, this perfect orchestration of sight andsound.
And although it is delivering the excitement of an Africanadventure, we are actually on a Kilimanjaro Safari in DisneyWorld's newest theme park, Animal Kingdom.
This Kingdom is 500Central Florida acres reconfigured into deep green jungles, forestsand savanna and strikingly what one might expect to see at ananimal reserve in Africa.The Kilimanjaro Safari is definitely the highlight of the park.Include it at the beginning of your trip.
It's the one with thelongest line.
Our wait was short compared with other busy days.
Itwas a 30-minute wait for the 22-minute ride.
And Disney has takenlong waits into consideration and orchestrated that here, too.And a little later, under a thatched hut, rows ofclose-captioned TVs show a video, produced by the Harambe WildlifePreserve, a primer on safari wildlife with a built-in plea to helpprotect all wildlife.There are no visible barriers between you and the animals as youtake your ride through the Harambe Preserve, but signs postedthroughout the park ask that you not feed the animals or drop trashthat might injure them.Disney did, in fact, have a few animals die en route to AnimalKingdom and some when they arrived.
According to Time magazine,among the casualties were four cheetah cubs, two hippos and tworhinos.
Two otters also died, one after gorging itself on seedsfrom loquat trees.
Disney uprooted the trees and removed them fromthe Preserve.
Two African crown cranes also died, one after dartingout in front of one of the Safari lollies.
According to Time,they've since moved the cranes to a walking trail and installedmore mirrors on the vehicles so drivers have better sight lines.If you can tolerate standing in line again, experts say to takethe trip two or three times, since you never know which animalswill appear at any given time or what they'll be doing once you seethem.
A good example of this occurred after our Kilimanjaro ride.We followed, on foot, the path to the Gorilla Falls ExplorationTrail, where a mother and her 6-month-old baby were being viewed bya huge group gathered behind glass.But here is where this impromptu stage works its magic.
GorillaMom decided her baby was getting too precocious.
He had climbed atree and was acting too sure of himself.
She plucked him from thetree, looked directly our way, then scampered off with the babylatched onto her arm, the same way he had hugged the tree limb.Written in chalk, it is updated frequently and offers tips onhow long you can expect to wait for a particular ride.
It also willtell you what might be the next, best thing to do at thatparticular time based on crowd size and weather elements.
And youcan always bide some time, as we did, back at the Tree of Life.This is the park's centerpiece that towers 145 feet in the air(that's about 14 stories) and has 325 images of animals, includingbirds, reptiles, amphibians and insects.
The man-made tree evokesthe same kind of game you might play with your family on a long carride when trying to figure out images in clouds.Inside the trunk, you'll be given bug-eyed 3-D glasses.
Themovie takes you inside the world of insects and it's complete withmany effects, including the sights, sounds and even smells (watchout for this one) of the bug world.
We had multiday Disney passesand lofty ideas about maybe hitting the Magic Kingdom later in theafternoon, but Animal Kingdom is vast.
We discovered midway throughour travels that you should plan on spending the entire day at thispark.
It's also best to get an early start.
The park opens at 7a.m.
It closes at 8 p.m.It is somewhat difficult to maneuver Animal Kingdom and we spenta lot of our time using the map and trying to figure out how to getfrom point A to point B.
The landscape of this park is more windingand hilly.We stumbled upon Camp Mickey-Minnie.
The idea here is that theDisney characters are vacationing in the Adirondacks and you canvisit with them for an autograph or a photo shoot.
Some walk thegrounds while others are at little campgrounds where a short stayin line can get you an autograph or a photo op.
Although we didn'thave any small children with us, we decided it was worth the standin line to get a snapshot with Winnie the Pooh and Mickey Mousedressed in hiking gear.Here you are a scientist given the assignment of saving the lastanimatronic dinosaur from extinction when the crash of a fieryasteroid threatens Earth.
The vehicle twists and turns.
Watch outfor that pterodactyl, we've narrowly missed the carnotaurus, we'vegot to save the iguanodon.SAN FRANCISCO A security company that asked its applicants aseries of questions about their political beliefs settled aclass-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million, a case that couldchange the way corporations around the country screen jobcandidates.The settlement, filed Thursday in U.S. District Court in SanFrancisco, will pay up to 8,000 job applicants as much as $1,250 aspart of an agreement reached between the American Civil LibertiesUnion and Burns International Security Services, a subsidiary ofBorg-Warner Protective Services Corporation, the nation's largestsecurity company.A statement from Borg-Warner said the company denied allliability in the lawsuit and follows all state and federalemployment laws.Lead plaintiff Mel Thompson, 38, said he took the test at thecompany's San Francisco office in 1993 and was offended by thequestions and refused to answer many of them.Thompson said he voiced objections to the supervisor who gavehim the test when he realized he would be disqualified because ofhis answers.Under terms of the settlement, Thompson and other applicants whowere disqualified based on their test answers will receive up to$1,250 while those applicants who were hired can receive up to$500.The Rules Committee is the management apparatus that themajority party uses to run the business of the unruly 435-memberHouse.
The 13-member committee can quickly doom a bill bydetermining how it will be treated when it reaches the House floor.He pledged that 70 percent of the legislation the panel sent tothe House floor would go there under an open rule.His record to date: 58 percent of House bills in his first twoyears had open rules and 53 percent of bill so far this year.
Allowing members of the minority party to have the lastchance before a vote to offer their own version of a bill.
Ending proxy voting in House committees, thereby forcingmembers to attend.
He also worked to allow TV cameras to cover allcommittee testimony and cut the number of committee staffers in theHouse by almost one-third.Solomon's stint as chairman gets a less-glowing report card fromhis predecessor, Rep. Joe Moakley, D-Mass., committee chairman from1989 to 1994.By Moakley's count, Solomon sent legislation to the floor withopen rules just 43 percent of the time in his first two years andjust 33 percent this year.Moakley argues that this isn't much better than his own recordof 30 percent in his last two years as chairman.Indeed, one of the prime qualifications for membership on theRules Committee is fierce loyalty to the party leader, eitherSpeaker Gingrich or Rep. Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., the House Democraticleader.Both Solomon and the man who will succeed him next year if theRepublicans remain in control, Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., areknown as Gingrich disciples.Dreier, 45, a smooth, dapper Southern Californian with apenchant for pinball, says the speaker calls the shots in the finalanalysis.Solomon, a conservative who worships Ronald Reagan, wasappointed to the post by Gingrich, who named all nine Republicansto the committee.
The four Democrats, picked by Gephardt, areoutnumbered more than 2-to-1, assuring that the speaker's desireswill be carried out.What endows the Rules Committee with its huge clout is the factthat every House member pushing legislation has to win the panel'sapproval before the bill can go to the House floor.As a result, virtually every House committee chairman andsubcommittee chairman attends a Rules Committee meeting in thecourse of a session to ask the panel's blessing on particularlegislation.The committee meets three or four times a week in an intimateCapitol hearing room under three chandeliers.
The beseeching membersits at a small table, peering up at Solomon who looks down at thewitness from his perch atop a tall semi-circular dais.Recently, Solomon has carried out the speaker's will by usingHouse rules to assure that the House won't approve campaign financelegislation this year.Rep.
Louise McIntosh Slaughter, D-N.Y., says Solomon effectivelykilled the legislation by sending the bill to the House floor undera rule that allows 12 different versions of the bill to be debatedand amended.
This will require so much debate that there won't beenough time to finish action.In the 1950s and 1960s, then-rules chairman Howard Smith, D-Va.,would block civil rights legislation by simply disappearing orarranging for other committee members to be absent so that a quorumwouldn't be present.
Absent a quorum, the panel would adjourn.The committee applies 51 standing House rules that are found ina 4-inch-thick black book with gold letters, which includes amanual by Thomas Jefferson with his anecdotes and thoughts on howthe House should be run.The rules book gets fatter every two years when members of everynew Congress update it, usually with footnotes.
One rule,stipulating that all amendments to a bill must be germane, is just25 words long, but 26 pages of footnotes have been added to explainhow the rule is applied.When he leaves Congress at the end of the year, Solomon, 67,will have finished just four years in his six year-term as ruleschairman, after serving 16 years in the minority.That's why his late April retirement announcement left many ofhis friends and colleagues baffled.
Dreier, 45, says he was one whowasn't surprised.
He said that when he was pondering leaving theHouse to run for the Senate two years ago, Solomon discouraged him,saying the chairmanship of rules would open up soon.Solomon said he realized that after taking just five vacationdays in 20 years, he owed it to his wife, Freda, to spend more timewith her, his children and grandchildren.
He also said he wanted tomake more money.
He's paid $136,700.Solomon insists his exit was not prompted by the fact that hehas only two years remaining in his chairmanship under a 1994Republican caucus rule limiting committee chairmen to six years.Solomon said he is confident that he could have become chairmanof another panel if he had finished his term as chairman of therules panel.
For example, he might have taken over the helm of theVeterans' Affairs Committee, Solomon says.The spread of sex-change chemicals in the environment could soonbe tracked with a test that uses tadpoles and liver cells of frogs.The test, developed in Germany, takes only two days to work.The sex-changing chemicals, which mimic female hormones such asestrogen, are present in many pesticides and plastics.
They arecausing increasing concern because they have been implicated inbreast cancer and declining sperm counts, and may also interferewith fetal development.The new test, developed by Werner Kloas and his colleagues atKarlsruhe University, involves exposing cultures of liver cellsfrom the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis to the chemical inquestion.The solution is then checked for vitellogenin-mRNA, the first ina series of compounds produced after an estrogen receptor in aliver cell has been activated.
To make this possible, theresearchers first use the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, whichcan make millions of copies of a single piece of DNA or RNA.But Kloas warns that it is often difficult to tell to whatextent chemicals that mimic estrogen will disrupt sexualdevelopment.So his test involves a further stage in which xenopus tadpolesare immersed in the chemical to see how it affects their sexualdevelopment.
If an unusually high proportion of the tadpolesdevelop female characteristics, this indicates a strong estrogeniceffect.Some researchers have suggested that estrogen-type chemicalshave reduced the proportion of male amphibians in the wild, andthat this is one reason why amphibian populations around the worldhave declined.
This is a car of surprises.
At first glance, it reminds thiscolumnist of something British from the 1960s.
It's from the otherend of the world.It's slick, sleek, outfitted to the nines, and it exhibits veryfine road manners; it is a much better car than I would haveexpected from a company called Daewoo.
I had never seen a luxurycar from Daewoo nor do I remember a true luxury automobile fromany Korean manufacturer.
At least, I had never driven one.
Frankly,I had expected a lot less than this Daewoo Laganza delivered.The minimal expectations do not spring from any antipathy tothings Korean but from earlier experience with a Daewoo automobile a tinny little bucket dubbed Pontiac LeMans.
Daewoo early on hada partnership of sorts with General Motors, and it was a Daewoo ofsmall virtue that inherited the muscle car moniker during one ofGM's many product reshufflings.
It was at best a very bad joke.Daewoo has moved away from GM and looked toward a Porscheexecutive, Ulrich Bez, for design expertise; Laganza, therefore, isno joke but a fairly accurate Korean quotation of a European car.There were a couple of other surprises, too.
Although the priceof Laganza has not been set as of this writing, it may be a bargainin today's market.
The Americans in Daewoo want to price it around$17,000; the Koreans see $20K as more reasonable an asking price.Somewhere in the middle, would still be low for a nicely styledfive-passenger sedan with air conditioning, power everything, andother amenities.
The tested Laganza came with leather and a CDplayer; perhaps those are meant to be options, perhaps not.That brings us to the other surprise or disappointment: Thecolumnist is roadtesting a vehicle that isn't yet available.
Infact, the first New England dealership isn't open yet.
The car isexpected to go on sale around Sept. 1.It may well be worth serious consideration when it arrives.Daewoo, while not exactly a household word around here, has beenmaking cars for enough years to have a track record.
The company iswell established in Australia and Asia.The Daewoo Laganza test car was so fresh off the factory boatthat it didn't even have a license plate, just a temporary stickerin the back window issued in California.
Nor did it have much onthe odometer essentially the mileage from where the truck droppedit to my digs.
For this assessment, since Daewoo is looking towardyouth for sales potential, I turned to daughter of Auto Writer, whoat 29 no longer considers herself youthful which comment alwayselicits a guffaw from Daddy Gray Hair.We pulled onto Route 202 heading for Biddeford and the MaineTurnpike via Sanford, discovering along the way that the2.198-liter (134.1 CID) four-cylinder had some guts.
Good, but notflashy off the line, it offered some reserve for passing youdon't have much room for that on Maine's rural roads.
The engine,however, whines loudly when you demand passing power.A five-speed manual is available, but the test vehicle came witha four-speed automatic, a smooth shifter that, while it sapped abit of performance from the little engine, didn't overwhelm it.The air conditioning had an automatic mode but seemed to offeronly two genuine settings: too cool or too warm.
We agreed on thecooler choice.Window switches of the convenient push/pull type favored by theJapanese makers were mounted on the doors.
A power mirror switch ison the left end of the dash.
The glove box is small, but door bins,a small covered bin between the seats, and pockets in the seatbacks helped with storage.
A lid in front of the bin covers twocupholders.
The trunk is good got the acid test with a bookcase but the rear seats do not fold down to add cargo room.
Legroom andheadroom are good front and rear, despite a sunroof with a slidinginner panel opening that inner door brightened up the interiorconsiderably.The ride up the coast was pleasant, the tour of Owls HeadTransportation Museum delightful although planes were beingtaxied toward cover as rain threatened.
The rain arrived andthundered on the roof for a few minutes, ending in a burst ofsunlight.
The ride back down the coast was pleasantly uneventful.We stopped for dinner in Wiscasset, sadly eyeing the last remnantsof the abandoned schooners Hesper and Luther Little being uprootedfrom the harbor bottom.She slowed appropriately; the Daewoo splashed along.
The AC hadachieved something of a comfort equilibrium.
She had never neededthe antilock brakes; I used them later gratefully.
She had lightsat home.The storm passed as we hit Lowell, but I hit it again on myreturn to the New Hampshire den I inhabit torrential rain, moreheavenly fireworks, and, finally, the sudden need for ABS becausesomeone else had proven ... unwise.Only time will prove it, but the Daewoo looks like seriouscompetition.
Daughter I can't call her the kid anymore ischecking the budget to see if, maybe ....
Wait a year, kid.The spread of sex-change chemicals in the environment could soonbe tracked with a test that uses tadpoles and liver cells of frogs.The test, developed in Germany, takes only two days to work.The sex-changing chemicals, which mimic female hormones such asestrogen, are present in many pesticides and plastics.
They arecausing increasing concern because they have been implicated inbreast cancer and declining sperm counts, and may also interferewith fetal development.The new test, developed by Werner Kloas and his colleagues atKarlsruhe University, involves exposing cultures of liver cellsfrom the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis to the chemical inquestion.The solution is then checked for vitellogenin-mRNA, the first ina series of compounds produced after an estrogen receptor in aliver cell has been activated.
To make this possible, theresearchers first use the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, whichcan make millions of copies of a single piece of DNA or RNA.But Kloas warns that it is often difficult to tell to whatextent chemicals that mimic estrogen will disrupt sexualdevelopment.So his test involves a further stage in which xenopus tadpolesare immersed in the chemical to see how it affects their sexualdevelopment.
If an unusually high proportion of the tadpolesdevelop female characteristics, this indicates a strong estrogeniceffect.Some researchers have suggested that estrogen-type chemicalshave reduced the proportion of male amphibians in the wild, andthat this is one reason why amphibian populations around the worldhave declined.
The small suction device draws off the fluid which oftencontains toxins and bacteria generated by an inflammatory traumaresponse within the wound.
It is this fluid which blocks key bloodvessels and leads to necrosis the death of surrounding tissue.Until now, repairing necrotic skin would have meant expensiveplastic surgery and a long stay in the hospital.But hopes have been raised in Australia after doctorssuccessfully treated a 42-year-old woman for a wound caused by atiger snake's bite.With a vacuum technique normally used for treating wounds causedby accidents or gunshots, Ian Holten, a plastic surgeon from theGeelong Hospital near Melbourne, extracted half a liter of fluidfrom the victim's wound in 24 hours.
As a result, blood was able toflow normally again, promoting the growth of healthy tissue.Holten reported the tiger snake case in May at the AnnualScientific Congress of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons inSydney.It is the first time the newly developed vacuum-assisted closure(VAC) device, has been used to reduce the often devastatingaftereffects of a snakebite.Invented by Louis Argenta, a plastic surgeon from the BowmanGray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem,N.C., the VAC wound system is being made by a Texas-based company,Kinetic Concepts.
Argenta says that by getting rid of fluid, theVAC can make wounds heal four times faster than they wouldotherwise.The tiger snake victim had been bitten on the foot.
Although herlife was saved by an antivenin injection, a hole 3 centimeterssquare opened up around the bite, and her foot swelled and becamepainful.
Holten put a foam dressing in the hole then used a thinplastic film to seal the area.
Then, using the vacuum pump, whichwas attached to a tube embedded in the foam, he sucked off thefluid.Next, Holten wants to test the technique on a patient whose leghas ulcerated from toe to knee after being bitten by Australia'svenomous white-tailed spider.But Ken Winkel from the Australian Venom Research Unit at theUniversity of Melbourne says it is far too early to know if thetechnique will become a commonplace way to deal with the effects ofbites.The small suction device draws off the fluid which oftencontains toxins and bacteria generated by an inflammatory traumaresponse within the wound.
It is this fluid which blocks key bloodvessels and leads to necrosis the death of surrounding tissue.Until now, repairing necrotic skin would have meant expensiveplastic surgery and a long stay in the hospital.But hopes have been raised in Australia after doctorssuccessfully treated a 42-year-old woman for a wound caused by atiger snake's bite.With a vacuum technique normally used for treating wounds causedby accidents or gunshots, Ian Holten, a plastic surgeon from theGeelong Hospital near Melbourne, extracted half a liter of fluidfrom the victim's wound in 24 hours.
As a result, blood was able toflow normally again, promoting the growth of healthy tissue.Holten reported the tiger snake case in May at the AnnualScientific Congress of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons inSydney.It is the first time the newly developed vacuum-assisted closure(VAC) device, has been used to reduce the often devastatingaftereffects of a snakebite.Invented by Louis Argenta, a plastic surgeon from the BowmanGray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem,N.C., the VAC wound system is being made by a Texas-based company,Kinetic Concepts.
Argenta says that by getting rid of fluid, theVAC can make wounds heal four times faster than they wouldotherwise.The tiger snake victim had been bitten on the foot.
Although herlife was saved by an antivenin injection, a hole 3 centimeterssquare opened up around the bite, and her foot swelled and becamepainful.
Holten put a foam dressing in the hole then used a thinplastic film to seal the area.
Then, using the vacuum pump, whichwas attached to a tube embedded in the foam, he sucked off thefluid.Next, Holten wants to test the technique on a patient whose leghas ulcerated from toe to knee after being bitten by Australia'svenomous white-tailed spider.But Ken Winkel from the Australian Venom Research Unit at theUniversity of Melbourne says it is far too early to know if thetechnique will become a commonplace way to deal with the effects ofbites.Matsushita and its rivals Sony and TDK have been developingmetal-evaporated tape for 20 years, but it has only been used forbroadcast-quality digital recording because it is so expensive.
MEtape is very thin, allowing more video to be stored in a smallcassette.
But this makes it inefficient for recording analoguesignals, which require a thick magnetic layer to capture lowfrequencies.The latest consumer video format, digital video, records bothsound and vision as high-frequency digital code, which can befaithfully captured in a very thin magnetic coating.Matsushita thinks DV users will pay a premium for cassettes thatincrease recording time from 80 to 120 minutes.Previous ME tapes have needed a backing 7 micrometers thick towithstand the strain of traveling through a video recorder.
Thishas limited tape length in the cassette to 80 minutes.
With the DLCbacking, Matsushita can make do with 4.8 micrometres, creating tapewhich is only 5.5 micrometres thick in total.
Matsushita and its rivals Sony and TDK have been developingmetal-evaporated tape for 20 years, but it has only been used forbroadcast-quality digital recording because it is so expensive.
MEtape is very thin, allowing more video to be stored in a smallcassette.
But this makes it inefficient for recording analoguesignals, which require a thick magnetic layer to capture lowfrequencies.The latest consumer video format, digital video, records bothsound and vision as high-frequency digital code, which can befaithfully captured in a very thin magnetic coating.Matsushita thinks DV users will pay a premium for cassettes thatincrease recording time from 80 to 120 minutes.Previous ME tapes have needed a backing 7 micrometers thick towithstand the strain of traveling through a video recorder.
Thishas limited tape length in the cassette to 80 minutes.
With the DLCbacking, Matsushita can make do with 4.8 micrometres, creating tapewhich is only 5.5 micrometres thick in total.
It is easy to dump waste in deep-ocean trenches far harder tocheck that it hasn't seeped from its containers into the sea.
Now,though, colonies of glowing bacteria offer hope.
When they sensepollution in the water around them, they get dimmer.Working with colleagues at the institute and at the U.S. NavalResearch Laboratory in Washington D.C., Jones has screened 10species of luminous bacteria from fish and marine mammals.
One ofthe most promising is Photobacterium phosphoreum HE-1a, isolatedfrom the deep-sea fish Paratrachichthys prosthemius.
In alaboratory pressure chamber, the bacteria survived pressures of upto 31 megapascals more than 300 times atmospheric pressure equivalent to a depth of around 3,000 meters.The researchers found that P. phosphoreum HE-1a glowed up to 50percent less brightly when exposed to a variety of potentialpollutants.
These included heavy metals such as zinc, copper andcobalt, as well as chemical pollutants, including pesticides,polychlorinated biphenyls and polyaromatic hydrocarbons typicallyfound in oily wastes.Jones and collaborators at the university's Center of MarineBiotechnology have built a prototype cell that exposes a livingcolony of the bacteria to seawater samples filtered through asemipermeable membrane.
A digital camera monitors the intensity oflight coming from the colony.
When the cell is deployed on theseafloor, any dimming of the usual signal can alert neighboringsensors or samplers.
The signals could be monitored remotely onland or on a ship or rig.To keep the colony alive, the bacteria will need to be fed froma buoy or platform on the surface, from which nutrients could bepumped down at a constant rate.
Dead or aging bacteria would becontinuously jettisoned to keep the colony fresh.He says the sentinel could provide a useful tool for evaluatingwhether proposals for deep-sea dumping would be as environmentallybenign as their advocates claim.Jones and his colleagues presented their preliminary findingslast month in Atlanta at the annual meeting of the American Societyfor Microbiology.
Their development highlights growing interest inthe use of light-emitting bacteria as sensors.Last month, researchers at Britain's chemical and biologicaldefense laboratory at Porton Down, Wiltshire, reported that glowingbacteria could be used to detect the use of chemical weapons.
It is easy to dump waste in deep-ocean trenches far harder tocheck that it hasn't seeped from its containers into the sea.
Now,though, colonies of glowing bacteria offer hope.
When they sensepollution in the water around them, they get dimmer.Working with colleagues at the institute and at the U.S. NavalResearch Laboratory in Washington D.C., Jones has screened 10species of luminous bacteria from fish and marine mammals.
One ofthe most promising is Photobacterium phosphoreum HE-1a, isolatedfrom the deep-sea fish Paratrachichthys prosthemius.
In alaboratory pressure chamber, the bacteria survived pressures of upto 31 megapascals more than 300 times atmospheric pressure equivalent to a depth of around 3,000 meters.The researchers found that P. phosphoreum HE-1a glowed up to 50percent less brightly when exposed to a variety of potentialpollutants.
These included heavy metals such as zinc, copper andcobalt, as well as chemical pollutants, including pesticides,polychlorinated biphenyls and polyaromatic hydrocarbons typicallyfound in oily wastes.Jones and collaborators at the university's Center of MarineBiotechnology have built a prototype cell that exposes a livingcolony of the bacteria to seawater samples filtered through asemipermeable membrane.
A digital camera monitors the intensity oflight coming from the colony.
When the cell is deployed on theseafloor, any dimming of the usual signal can alert neighboringsensors or samplers.
The signals could be monitored remotely onland or on a ship or rig.To keep the colony alive, the bacteria will need to be fed froma buoy or platform on the surface, from which nutrients could bepumped down at a constant rate.
Dead or aging bacteria would becontinuously jettisoned to keep the colony fresh.He says the sentinel could provide a useful tool for evaluatingwhether proposals for deep-sea dumping would be as environmentallybenign as their advocates claim.Jones and his colleagues presented their preliminary findingslast month in Atlanta at the annual meeting of the American Societyfor Microbiology.
Their development highlights growing interest inthe use of light-emitting bacteria as sensors.Last month, researchers at Britain's chemical and biologicaldefense laboratory at Porton Down, Wiltshire, reported that glowingbacteria could be used to detect the use of chemical weapons.
The bull market in stocks has been long and lovely, but evenunsophisticated mutual fund investors understand the nature ofmarket risk.
If the prices of many stocks in a fund's portfoliodrop, fund holders will lose, too.Understanding a fund's exposure to liquidity risk, however, isquite another matter.
Liquidity risk is the possibility that theprice of a stock will drop, and therefore may push down the fund'snet asset value, when a manager tries to sell a large position.
Orthat the price will climb, forcing a manager to pay too much whenbuying a large chunk.Unless investors have examined a fund's holdings in each stockand compared them with the total shares outstanding in the company,it is tough to fathom such risk for a particular fund.Although it is not much of a concern in large-cap stock funds,liquidity risk can wreak real havoc in micro-cap funds, whichinvest in fledgling companies with market values of $250 million orless.
Positions in such companies are much harder to get in and outof without roiling the market.How damaging can illiquid stocks be to a portfolio?
Plenty, asshareholders in two Dreyfus small-cap stock funds, PremierAggressive Growth A, with $264 million in assets, and AggressiveGrowth, at $77 million, are finding out.Indeed, these two funds are textbook examples of the perils ofilliquidity.
So far this year, through Thursday, shareholders inPremier Aggressive Growth have lost 13.5 percent; those inAggressive Growth are down 18 percent.
As a benchmark, the WilshireSmall-Cap index is up 10.8 percent.
Last year, Premier AggressiveGrowth was down 13 percent; Aggressive Growth lost almost 16percent.Performance like this may explain the April news that the funds'manager since August 1995, Michael L. Schonberg, was being joinedby Paul A. LaRocco, late of Founders Asset Management in Denver,who was named the primary manager.
Mellon Bank Corp. owns both theFounders and Dreyfus fund companies.For the two and a half years that Schonberg ran the fund alone,he bought speculative technology or biotechnology companies withfew shares outstanding.
He even borrowed money to buy shares.How illiquid are some of the holdings?
Frighteningly so.According to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher, themedian market capitalization of the larger of the two funds,Premier Aggressive Growth, is a Lilliputian $157 million.
Acrossthe micro-cap fund category, only 20 percent of funds have a medianmarket capitalization this small or smaller.The median market cap of Aggressive Growth is even smaller, at$87 million.
Only 10 percent of micro-cap funds in Morningstar'suniverse have median market values that tiny.More than 10 percent of Premier Aggressive Growth's assets arein stocks that trade at $5 a share or less.
In the AggressiveGrowth fund, 20 percent fall in that range.Another measure of both funds' high risk levels can be found inthe concentration of fund holdings.
As of April, Premier AggressiveGrowth held 70 stocks; each of the top six holdings accounted forbetween 4 percent and 7 percent of the fund's assets.Aggressive Growth was even more concentrated, at 54 stocks.
ItsNo.
1 holding, a cosmetics and medical technology concern calledChromatics Color Science International, accounted for almost 13percent of the fund's assets.
That's staggering, given that a topholding in a fund typically accounts for 2 percent to 3 percent ofassets.Dreyfus is making a big bet on Chromatics Color Science, acompany that was brought public in 1993 by Investors Associates, abrokerage firm that closed last year after a number of statesecurities regulators revoked its license.
Chromatics Color Sciencetrades around $11.50, down from $17.25 in March.
Dreyfus owned 1.5million shares as of March, more than 10 percent of the company'sshares outstanding.The bet on Chromatics is not the only big gamble fund holdershave made.
Almost 30 percent of the assets in Premier AggressiveGrowth are stocks of obscure companies in which Dreyfus owns morethan 5 percent of the shares outstanding.
In the Aggressive Growthfund, 67 percent of the assets are stocks of companies in whichDreyfus owns more than 5 percent of shares.This concentration in illiquid stocks is fine when the fundmanager is buying.
As the buying wave rises, so does the stock'sprice.
This in turn raises the fund's net asset value, making thebet look smart.But when the buying dries up, trouble begins.
If the stock doesnot have positive earnings or other good news to support it, theprice begins to flag.
The bigger the position, the harder it is toget out.
Which is precisely the predicament that LaRocco findshimself in at Dreyfus.Of course, if the funds sell many stocks at a loss, any gainsgoing forward under their new manager may be offset.
That is theonly silver lining to the liquidity cloud hanging over these mutualfunds.Q.
I plan to put a Pergo floor, the laminated plastic, in mykitchen, but I am concerned as to what the table and chairs will doto it, such as scratching.
And, is a Pergo floor too slippery whenwet?A.
While the Pergo is guaranteed for 15 years (not long for afloor), any floor surface except a rug will be scratched, or atleast is likely to be scratched by a moving chair, especially ifone tiny grain of sand gets between leg and floor.
And that goesfor Pergo, varnished wood, linoleum, sheet vinyl, resilient tile,and ceramic tile.
Of course, some, such as glazed tile, are moreresistant to scratching than others.But there is hope: Put a glide at the ends of the table andchair legs.
It can be felt, which works well but wears out quickly,but better is a nylon glide that can be nailed into the ends oflegs.
A more permanent cure is to put area rugs under tables andchairs.
Simple, but logical.As for slipperiness, any smooth, hard, shiny surface is slipperywhen wet, but Pergo is not necessarily slipperier than any othersurface.
It is a matter of staying off a newly-washed floor untilit dries, and to wipe up liquid spills quickly (any spills, really)before someone trips, slips and falls.Q.
I am having the clapboards of my old (1834) Greek Revivalhouse painted.
I want white, but the painter said to paint ityellow or blue to prevent nails from rusting.
Do I really have tomake it yellow or blue?A.
Now, there is an old wives' tale to beat all old wives'tales.
If nails are rusting, color makes no difference; the rustwill come right through any paint.
The only cure for rusting nailsis to pull each one and replace it with a stainless steel sidingnail, which, incidentally, will hold better than the old nailsanyway.
Even dabbing a bit of metal primer over each nail will notsolve the problem.Even if the nails are countersunk and filled with a filler ofsome sort (and the rust is showing through the filter), thecondition is incurable except by replacing the nails.
And becausethe clapboards are only about 1/4 inch thick, the nails cannot bedeeply countersunk (or they'll go all the way through), and woodfiller will not hold very well in such a shallow hole.Q.
My small house is on a slab, with heat and air conditioningcoming from ducts in the ceiling.
The paint is peeling on theceiling around the duct openings.
How can I prevent that?A.
What is happening: Moist air in the ducts is condensing rightat the opening of the duct, which is cool, and spreading to theceiling, where the dampness is causing the peeling.
So, check theinsulation on the attic floor to make sure it is snug against theducts, and make sure the ducts themselves are well insulated, withno gaps.
If the insulation seems flimsy (an inch or so thick), addanother layer of duct insulation and make sure all seams and holesin the insulation are covered with duct tape or a similar tape thatwill keep them sealed.Then sand the peeling paint smooth and apply two thin coats oflatex ceiling paint.
You may have to repaint the entire ceiling.The paint also might have peeled because it was applied toothickly, and that is why two thin coats will perform better andresist peeling better than one or two thick coats.Q.
I am having a house built in New Hampshire, and I would liketwo-inch-wide louvered strips in the soffits, the full length ofthe soffits.
Where can I find such strips?A.
I know of no building supply store or lumber store that doesnot carry them.
They are common, because such strips are the stateof the art for attic ventilation, in conjunction with ridge vents.Such soffit strips are two inches wide and 10 feet long, and fiteasily into a two-inch-wide opening in the soffit.
They are betterthan an occasional louver, say 8 by 12 inches or 4 by 12 inches orso, and are a lot better than the round louvers.
The strips areinsect-proof, and are also better looking than any other louvereddevice.
They come in white and other colors.
A black strip wouldlook good.Another good soffit vent is a simple two- or three-inch-wideopening, the full length of the soffit, screened with blackscreening.
The screening can go on the back of the soffit or on itsface.
If it is applied to the face, a small molding trim should beapplied to cover the raw edges of the screen and to hold it inplace.
Such a black screened vent will give the eaves an extraarchitectural look.
Addition of square or rectangular vents, orworse yet, round louvers, will look like a jury rig.
UFtagline Call in your questions on 617-929-2930.
GlobeHandyman on Call Peter Hotton is available on Tuesdays from 1 p.m.to 6 p.m. to answer telephone questions on house repair.
Hottonwill chat on line about house matters Thursdays, 1-2 p.m. Toparticipate, point your Internet browser to http://www.boston.com and use keyword: chat.NEW YORK There's Betsey, her hair in gravity-defying RaggedyAnn orange pigtails, dressed for success in a bra-revealingbustier, tightly laced over a teeny flowered minidress worn overblack leggings and, for comic relief, striped socks and sparklyblue platform shoes.And then there's Lulu in a simple black cardigan, her blond hairhanging down her back, her long, slim legs encased in blackboot-cut pants.
The only thing they seem to have in common ismatching tattoos a lightning bolt over the left breast.If Betsey Johnson, 55, isn't exactly growing up she ended herlatest Bryant Park fashion show with a trademark cartwheel herdaughter, Lulu, 23, who is in charge of the designer's Ultra line,has definitely brought a new level of sophistication to hermother's fashion carnival.Betsey Johnson picks her daughter up every morning for work.They share an office space with desks that face each other.
Theygiggle, constantly interrupt each other, complete each other'ssentences and generally act like joined-at-the-hip best friends without ever losing sight of the bottom line.The Betsey Johnson company, which was founded in 1978 by Ms.Johnson and a partner, Chantal Bacon, now has 23 outlets and hadrevenues of $38 million last year, Ms. Bacon said.
In 1995, thecompany introduced the pricier Ultra line, which is aimed at thedesigner-label buyer and Ms. Johnson's celebrity clients, includingJennLulu earned her fashion stripes working as a runway model in hermother's shows, and as a salesgirl in the company's stores duringsummer vacations.
After high school, she went to work full time forthe company.
Her biggest contribution may be that she representsthe company's target demographic.
She keeps her mother abreast ofthe club scene, the latest videos, the hottest new models.But Lulu's fashion sense is at the other end of the spectrumfrom her mother's punk, sex-kitten style.
The clothes Lulu designsfor the Ultra line include slinky, hand-beaded slip dresses, tinycardigans, fake fur-trimmed embroidered satin coats and cashmereseparates.The Ultra line, whose prices range from $300 to $2,500 moreexpensive than the original Betsey Johnson line is the mostobvious effort to give the company legs.
It tends to appeal to amore sophisticated customer than the typical buyer of BetseyJohnson's signature clothes.A few days before Fashion Week, everybody t the Betsey Johnsonshowroom was engaged in the same activity frantically nailingrhinestones to skimpy garments for the designer's show.
Manningtheir stud guns, dozens of assistants looked like Santa's elves, ifSanta were based in Las Vegas.
Paper-doll thin Irene Wright, thecompany's fitting model, sidled in in a gold lame dress.Betsey and Lulu set to work adjusting the dress, which fastenedup the front with hooks and eyes that reveal a gold-lace bra.Betsey pinned the garment until it was skin-tight, then decided itshould be shorter.Instead, the four films, starting at 8 p.m. CDT Tuesday, aretouching and funny, insightful and quirky, sharp and even a littleodd.
All carry the independent's stamp of risk, individuality andfreshness that comes from filmmakers with nothing to lose andeverything to gain, like a trip to Sundance or, heck, Cannes.Top-notch performances come from all those involved,particularly Kashmir Jones, who plays the young girl who narratesbut doesn't speak until the end, and Karen Young, playing herbewildered mother.
This is rare in such low-budget films.We even get to learn a thing or two about the filmmakers.
Theyappear with host Penny Marshall to answer her sometimes silly,sometimes serious questions about their craft.Hart is based in London.
According to her bio, her projectsrange from studio features to documentaries for the BBC.
She sharesthe story of becoming a filmmaker after tiring of being an agentand baby sitter for writers and directors.ALBANY, N.Y.
The thousands of pale, lifeless faces he hasgazed upon over four decades don't haunt him.
Most of the names area blur.
It's the images of the organs abnormal or lacerated,poisoned or punctured that remain with Dr. Michael Baden.The corpses Baden has examined through the years the heroinoverdoses and motor vehicle fatalities and victims of drug dealsgone bad among them never made the headlines.But Baden is best known for being a key figure in examining someof the most spectacular deaths of this and other generations, fromthe assassinations of John F. Kennedy and civil rights leaders Dr.Martin Luther King Jr. and Medgar Evers, to the deaths of comedianJohn Belushi and Czar Nicholas of Russia, to the autopsies ofvictims of Trans World Airlines Flight 800.The spotlight on this coroner-cum-celebrity pathologist reachedits zenith during the O.J.
Simpson trial, when he testified onbehalf of the defense.While Baden isn't shy about talking about his accomplishments,he explains away some of the high-profile cases as a result of ashortage of board-certified forensic pathologists in the country less than 300 by his count, with none found in 12 states.Baden, 63, said the word that best encapsulates him in both hisjob and his life is more descriptive than defining: interloper.Because Baden is often called by the defense, some policeofficers and prosecutors have tagged another label on him: Whore.If you have Baden's fee of $2,500 a day plus expenses, you haveyourself a witness.Baden, who testifies primarily for the prosecution in New Yorkstate, said people don't know of the many cases in which he isretained but not called to testify by the defense because hisconclusions don't help a client.
But that doesn't stop the enmityof police who view him as undermining their brethren elsewhere.Born in the Bronx in 1934, Baden was what was then commonlycalled a hellion one wild child.There is a wildness to Baden that lingers today, from hislongish, hair to his shirttail that struggles to free itself to afondness for sloppy-but-casual attire.
A hulking figure, he firstappears to be a younger man worn down too quickly, until you learnhis age.
Then his dominant feature emerges a boundless energythat has co-workers scrambling to ensure Baden is not schedulinghimself to be three places at once.By the time Baden was released from reform school at age 9, thefamily had moved to the Fort Green housing projects in Brooklyn,where his dad worked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
Baden said he andhis brother were the only Jews in the complex.Prompted by a mother who, reform school or not, envisioned herson a doctor, Baden went on to City College, and then New YorkUniversity School of Medicine, before serving as an intern, thenresident at Bellevue Hospital.Tucked in Bellevue was the New York City Medical Examiner'sOffice.
Baden was drawn there not just because of its proximity,but also out of a desire to learn the human body from the insideout.From 1961-86, Baden worked in the New York City MedicalExaminer's Office, serving as chief medical examiner from 1978 to1979 before a rift resulted in his demotion by Mayor Ed Koch.Baden took a lot of heat from the State Police and elsewhere forhis testimony for the defense in the Simpson case.
Baden's theoryis there was more than one assailant and the attack took more than10 minutes, damaging prosecution claims.The man who embraces death is against the death penalty.
Badensaid his opposition to capital punishment is not rooted inphilosophical or theological reasoning, but rather the fact thatauthorities sometimes arrest the wrong person.Baden, who has courted the news media throughout his career, iscolorful and upfront with his responses (too upfront for somecolleagues).Pless, who is also a professor at the Indiana University Schoolof Medicine, said that despite concerns of some, he doesn't buy thenotion that Baden is a hired gun willing to testify to anything tosuit a client.For the most part, death has treated Baden well.
He is famousand paid handsomely, an outsider who has been on the inside ofhigh-profile cases coast to coast.
To him, death and demise are notsynonymous.
(Ken Parish Perkins is television critic for the Fort WorthStar-Telegram.
You can contact him at (817) 390-7862.
Visit theStar-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:www.star-telegram.com)Q. I am 38, and my current investments include a 401(k) plan of$30,269, almost evenly divided between Vanguard Index 500 and PIMCoStocks Plus funds, to which I have been adding $5,000 a year andwhich is fully matched by my employer.
I also have been investing$2,400 a year in American Century Value fund, where the currentbalance is $12,433, and $600 a year in Putnam New Opportunitiesfund, where the balance is $5,552.
Finally, I have a $12,718 IRA towhich I am no longer contributing in American Century Value.
Iwould like to leave my current job at the beginning of the year2001 to work at a lower-paying, less stressful company or perhapsto begin a career in a new field.
In that case, I probably wouldcut my investments to a rate of $2,000 a year.
How do you suggest Imaximize my investments over the next few years, and how should Iinvest the additional $2,000 a year I would be saving untilretirement?
I realize if I stay with my current employer untilretirement I stand to gain financially, but I am just as interestedin living a life that is rich in personal fulfillment.A.
Yes, money isn't everything.
And since you've made a solidstart on retirement savings at a fairly young age, you should endup with a pretty substantial nest egg at age 65.Presuming average 10 percent annual portfolio returns in allthese calculations, if you continue saving at the current rate forthe next 30 months you would have accumulated $114,470 by the timeof your contemplated career change.
If you then slowed down to$2,000 annual contributions for the next 24 1/2 years, the poolwould be $1,379,410 at age 65.The problem with those tidy calculations is inflation, anunknown of massive importance.
Over the course of 27 years,inflation can take an awful bite out of the buying power of a nestegg.You might begin by examining what kind of income stream$1,379,410 might produce.
If it were invested to yield an average6.5 percent, it would bring in $89,661 a year, which at first seemsa tidy sum.
But if inflation runs at 4 percent during those 27years, that $89,661 comes to $31,095 in today's money; if inflationis only 3 percent, that would give you $40,364 a year in currentbuying power.You will have to decide if you are comfortable with thosenumbers or would rather try to develop a second career that'sless stressful than your current one, yet that would still allowyou to save more than $2,000 a year toward retirement.As for the portfolio itself, I think it's a little top-heavy.Your two primary vehicles Vanguard Index 500 and PIMCo StocksPlus are very similar, investing in a blend of growth and valuelarge-cap issues.
In the mid-cap arena, you achieve much the samebalance, opposing the mid-cap value-oriented American Century Valuewith the mid-cap growth-oriented Putnam New Dimensions.
But why notdiversify further?First, I would suggest a solid small-cap fund such as VanguardSmall-Cap Stock Index or Fidelity Low-Priced Stock.
Second, I wouldadd a health care fund.
The latter should be a solid and fairlyconservative health care fund conservative in that it gives onlymodest weight to biotech or HMO issues; examples, among others,would be Fidelity Select Health Care and Vanguard SpecializedHealth Care.I suggest moving 10 percent of the portfolio to each of thesesectors, giving the portfolio better diversification and reducingreliance on the large-cap area.Of course, you couldn't make such a move unless your 401(k)offers small-cap and/or health care options, but you could make themove after you change careers and move the 401(k) funds into anIRA.
With such a long time until retirement, those 2 1/2 yearsshouldn't have a big effect on the long-term numbers.Q.
I am 62 and retired.
My income is $70,000 a year, coming froma government pension, Social Security, and dividends.
My portfoliois entirely with Vanguard, consisting of $158,000 in the CaliforniaTax-Free Money Market fund, $173,000 in the California Tax-FreeInsured Long Term Bond fund, $136,000 in Vanguard Index 500,$63,000 in Vanguard GNMA, and $195,000 in Vanguard Wellington (ofwhich $61,000 is in an IRA account).
Does this mix of assets makesense, and do you think staying exclusively with Vanguard is risky?A.
I think the portfolio is pretty conservative, but you don'tgive me many hints about your appetite for risk, or how that$70,000 of income relates to your needs.Calculating 65 percent of your Vanguard Wellington positions asstocks and then adding in the Index 500 holding, I come up with abit more than 36 percent of the portfolio in stocks.I realize this number represents a pretty typical equity holdingfor a retiree, but I believe relatively early retirees, and thosewho have amassed significant savings pools, might look to asomewhat higher number.Early retirees want more stock because they can anticipate moreyears during which inflation will be attacking the value of theirincome stream, and affluent retirees look to a heavier stockallocation because they usually can afford to ride out marketbumps.If you were to shift the IRA money that's now in VanguardWellington to a conservative all-stock fund such as Vanguard IndexValue, it would boost the equity side of the portfolio to a littlemore than 39 percent, and would not have a terribly significanteffect on the yield from the holding a reduction of $1,059 atcurrent rates.As for whether it's risky to have all your portfolio withVanguard, I think you have very little to worry about.
Each of theseparate funds is its own business entity, with its assets heldapart from those of the parent company or other funds in thefamily.Whatever might happen to any one fund, or to the parent companyitself, would have no effect on the financial stability of anyother fund.
And second, given Vanguard's fundamental conservatismand stingy habits when it comes to spending money, I see verylittle prospect of any trouble ahead.
Kenneth Hooker will answer selected investors' questions in theSunday MutualFunds and Monday Money sections.
Send letters,including your name, address, and telephone number, to: KennethHooker, The Boston Globe, Boston, MA 02107-2378.SEOUL, South Korea Fourteen years ago, Kim Dae-jung was apro-democracy activist living in exile in Washington, strugglingwith his English and with American officials who saw him as a pest.When President Kim of South Korea returns to the United Statesfor a nine-day state visit beginning Saturday, he will get bettertreatment.
This time he is to stay in Washington at Blair House,the American government's official guest residence, and address ajoint session of Congress.Kim, the onetime dissident who became South Korea's president inFebruary, will also get a state dinner at the White House, receivea human rights award and pick up an honorary degree at GeorgetownUniversity.Kim has indeed lived long he is 74 and he credits hissurvival in part to American intervention when Korean dictatorsplanned to kill him.
That makes his state visit an especiallypoignant moment, diplomats and Korean officials say.Still, Kim acknowledged that in some respects he is now in theposition of the officials who fended him off when he was adissident.
Asked if he sometimes faces a choice between his moralprinciples and the dictates of statecraft, when he ponders whetherto speak out on issues like human rights in China, Kim nodded.These days, Kim has emerged to some extent as a spokesman forthe region and not just his country.
The state visit to Americawill add to his stature and to this regional leadership role, arole that he seems to relish.Yet for Kim to sustain his role as a model for the region, hewill first have to overcome South Korea's economic crisis.
And thattoo is a reason for the state visit: Kim will begin his visit inthe financial capital of New York, not the political capital ofWashington, and he will emphasize South Korea's efforts torestructure its economy and woo foreign investors.After arriving in New York on Saturday and helping open theKorea Wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and speaking toseveral organizations, Kim is to go to Washington on Monday for ameeting with President Clinton and his speech to Congress.On Thursday, he will travel to California and deliver a speechat Stanford University and visit Silicon Valley, whoseentrepreneurial spirit Kim greatly admires.
On June 12 he will goon to Los Angeles, a center for Korean-Americans, and will leavefor home the next day.The visit is also likely to buoy Kim politically at home.Initially he was hailed as virtually a national savior when he tookoffice, even as he lectured his nation on the need to accept thepain of layoffs and restructuring.
But in recent weeks, some Koreanbusiness analysts have said the steam has gone out of hisinitiatives.Not surprisingly, Kim disagrees.
He said he is concerned aboutrising unemployment but still confident that South Korea is on theright track to recreate itself as a more open and market-orientedeconomy.One major concern for foreign investors has been the militancyof South Korean labor unions, which have been hostile to layoffsand have turned to strikes and sometimes violence to resistrestructuring.
The unions have agreed to postpone strikes untilKim's return from the United States, however, and Kim argues thatthe worst is over for the labor unrest.In his dissident days, Kim was closely allied with labor groups,but now he seems concerned that they will frighten investors andblock his efforts to create a more flexible market economy.Apparently seeking to reassure foreigners that the unions havenot gained the upper hand in Korea, he said in the interview thathe will use the full authority of the government to crack down onunions that violate the law.The career of Robert F. Kennedy was made for legend: theyouthful privilege giving way to early sorrow, the transformationfrom bare-knuckled political operative to compassionate spokesmanfor the underdog, the life cut short as its climax seemed withinreach.A three-hour memoir, which arrives soon after the 30thanniversary of his assassination, taps the affections of those whoknew him well and can only burnish the image.Memory may have softened reality and added a glow, but thetelevision audience can still learn much from the likes of ArthurSchlesinger Jr., Rep. John Lewis and Richard Goodwin about thehopes he aroused and the causes in which he enlisted.Newsreels carry the story from the young man's brief associationwith Sen. Joseph McCarthy through his zealous attacks on mobstersand corrupt labor leaders like James Hoffa; from his tough-mindedservices to his brother John as campaigner, attorney general andintimate adviser through his emergence as a moral force as senatorfrom New York and in his campaign for the 1968 Democraticpresidential nomination.Kennedy's accomplishments never matched the promise that hisadmirers detected in him, but that only adds to the sorrow for theyoung knight felled prematurely and for what might have been.Such is the legacy being advanced by this memoir.
How realisticthat assessment is must be left to more objective scholars, but atthe least they will have to take such prospects or dreams intotheir own cooler accounts.Steven Manuel, executive producer for the Discovery Channel;Jack Newfield, co-producer and reporter; produced and directed byCharles Stuart; written by Newfield and Stuart; edited by CobCarlson; original music by Tom Phillips; narrated by Glenn Close,Mario Cuomo and Ving Rhames.
A production of Stuart TelevisionProductions Inc.
When I moved to a quarter-acre property in central New Jersey 20years ago, I wasn't interested in shrubs.
I thought that they wereall overwhelming in size and that their lack of color, fragranceand seasonal change made them unsuitable for my small beds.It took me a while, however, to realize how wrong I had been.
Inthe beginning, as many other gardeners have done, I concentrated onperennials and bulbs so that I could have a flowing tapestry ofcolor from spring through fall in my long, narrow borders.After 10 years, though, I knew something was still missing.
Inwinter, the beds were bare and boring.
In spring, emergingperennials provided little variation in height.
By summer, mypacked flowers needed a solid, stable block of form to tie togethertheir many elements.
And in fall, it would have been nice to have astalwart architectural presence instead of a waning heap of plants.Just at this time 1988 the Pennsylvania HorticulturalSociety introduced its Gold Medal Award, singling out commerciallyavailable woody ornamentals that are beautiful, low-maintenance,hardy and underutilized.
Each year, the winners are described inthe society's magazine, Green Scene.I went to my local garden center, chose a sweetspire, and tuckedit into a shady corner at the back of my house.
Its open, archingbranches look lovely as they shelter spring-blooming bulbs andground covers below and add form and structure in a small gardenarea the rest of the year.When I finished adding Hummingbird, I wanted more beautiful,carefree garden workhorses like it in my small spaces.
That meant Ihad to explore mail-order catalogs because most of these plantshave yet to reach garden centers.One of my first searches was for Rhodora (Rhododendroncanadense).
Among the most cold-tolerant of the genus, thisdeciduous plant had been recommended to me for its ease of care byan officer of the American Rhododendron Society.Thriving in either sun or shade, Rhodora bursts forth with largerosy purple or white flowers in early spring.
In fall, the foliageturns a rather attractive yellow-brown.
Though most literature saysRhodora must be grown in moist conditions (it is native to bogs andwet hillsides), my plant is in a raised bed and requires only aweekly watering during dry spells.To be honest, the dogwood stems were not as colorful over thewinter as I had hoped, and I have read that the leaves aresusceptible to disease and early drop.
If this is true, Kelseyiwill disappear from my garden.
That will not be a disaster.
Unlikein trials with large bushes, mistakes in experimenting with smallershrubs do not leave big, ugly spaces in borders.NEW YORK Given all the 20th-century icons who have beenresurrected and paid homage to in the name of fashion, nothing ismore curious than the pedestal erected for that hapless bungler oftelevision fame Gilligan.Then again, Gilligan is the apotheosis of simple chic comparedwith those other castaways the movie star, the millionaire andhis wife who packed an astounding amount of clothes for athree-hour tour.
And Gilligan had the right idea: in tropicalweather, a hat protects the head and neck from the sun.Moreover, given the natural impulse to dress down for summer ina lightweight jacket, polo shirt and khakis, a good hat adds acrucial bit of personality and polish to an otherwise lacklusteroutfit.Even so, there is no reason the Gilligan hat has to go intoreruns this summer.
Even if one does not want to step out in adandified straw boater, there are any number of summer hats lessdowdy than our hero's.At Barneys New York, a jaunty black straw hat made in England byFred Bare, $60, is neat and crisp enough to wear with a suit, yetequally apropos of a short-sleeve shirt and shorts.A black striped straw hat by Rod Keenan, $265, also at Barneys,is less versatile but much more stylish.
Made of a finer weave, itis also more comfortable and durable.At Agnes B., on Greene Street in Soho, a narrow-brim hat, $83,has an old-fashioned shape, but made in black leather, it has asharp, rakish cool.At the venerable milliner Worth Worth, on Madison Avenue at43rd Street, summer hat styles range from a simple, smart cottondriving cap, $30, to a panoply of Panama hats in varying weaves,styles and prices.
A Baku straw snap-brim is $145, while PanamaMontecristi hats can cost up to $1,000, depending on the finenessof the weave and of the jipijapa, the straw from which Panamas aremade.At Bergdorf Goodman, the finest Panama hat is $495 and can besquashed in a suitcase, within reason, and still snap back intoshape.
A cowboy-style Panama with a leather hatband is $195 and hasa novel charm.For those who still cling to the Gilligan ideal but want toupgrade, Paul Stuart, on Madison Avenue at 45th Street, has awaterproof fishing hat in a sleek black oiled cotton, $27.50.
AndPrada sells a fishing-style hat in black or brown nylon for $214 perfect for those who feel marooned without a designer label.This is a car of surprises.
At first glance, it reminds thiscolumnist of something British from the 1960s.
It's from the otherend of the world.It's slick, sleek, outfitted to the nines, and it exhibits veryfine road manners; it is a much better car than I would haveexpected from a company called Daewoo.
I had never seen a luxurycar from Daewoo nor do I remember a true luxury automobile fromany Korean manufacturer.
At least, I had never driven one.
Frankly,I had expected a lot less than this Daewoo Laganza delivered.The minimal expectations do not spring from any antipathy tothings Korean but from earlier experience with a Daewoo automobile a tinny little bucket dubbed Pontiac LeMans.
Daewoo early on hada partnership of sorts with General Motors, and it was a Daewoo ofsmall virtue that inherited the muscle car moniker during one ofGM's many product reshufflings.
It was at best a very bad joke.Daewoo has moved away from GM and looked toward a Porscheexecutive, Ulrich Bez, for design expertise; Laganza, therefore, isno joke but a fairly accurate Korean quotation of a European car.There were a couple of other surprises, too.
Although the priceof Laganza has not been set as of this writing, it may be a bargainin today's market.
The Americans in Daewoo want to price it around$17,000; the Koreans see $20K as more reasonable an asking price.Somewhere in the middle, would still be low for a nicely styledfive-passenger sedan with air conditioning, power everything, andother amenities.
The tested Laganza came with leather and a CDplayer; perhaps those are meant to be options, perhaps not.That brings us to the other surprise or disappointment: Thecolumnist is roadtesting a vehicle that isn't yet available.
Infact, the first New England dealership isn't open yet.
The car isexpected to go on sale around Sept. 1.It may well be worth serious consideration when it arrives.Daewoo, while not exactly a household word around here, has beenmaking cars for enough years to have a track record.
The company iswell established in Australia and Asia.The Daewoo Laganza test car was so fresh off the factory boatthat it didn't even have a license plate, just a temporary stickerin the back window issued in California.
Nor did it have much onthe odometer essentially the mileage from where the truck droppedit to my digs.
For this assessment, since Daewoo is looking towardyouth for sales potential, I turned to daughter of Auto Writer, whoat 29 no longer considers herself youthful which comment alwayselicits a guffaw from Daddy Gray Hair.We pulled onto Route 202 heading for Biddeford and the MaineTurnpike via Sanford, discovering along the way that the2.198-liter (134.1 CID) four-cylinder had some guts.
Good, but notflashy off the line, it offered some reserve for passing youdon't have much room for that on Maine's rural roads.
The engine,however, whines loudly when you demand passing power.A five-speed manual is available, but the test vehicle came witha four-speed automatic, a smooth shifter that, while it sapped abit of performance from the little engine, didn't overwhelm it.The air conditioning had an automatic mode but seemed to offeronly two genuine settings: too cool or too warm.
We agreed on thecooler choice.Window switches of the convenient push/pull type favored by theJapanese makers were mounted on the doors.
A power mirror switch ison the left end of the dash.
The glove box is small, but door bins,a small covered bin between the seats, and pockets in the seatbacks helped with storage.
A lid in front of the bin covers twocupholders.
The trunk is good got the acid test with a bookcase but the rear seats do not fold down to add cargo room.
Legroom andheadroom are good front and rear, despite a sunroof with a slidinginner panel opening that inner door brightened up the interiorconsiderably.The ride up the coast was pleasant, the tour of Owls HeadTransportation Museum delightful although planes were beingtaxied toward cover as rain threatened.
The rain arrived andthundered on the roof for a few minutes, ending in a burst ofsunlight.
The ride back down the coast was pleasantly uneventful.We stopped for dinner in Wiscasset, sadly eyeing the last remnantsof the abandoned schooners Hesper and Luther Little being uprootedfrom the harbor bottom.She slowed appropriately; the Daewoo splashed along.
The AC hadachieved something of a comfort equilibrium.
She had never neededthe antilock brakes; I used them later gratefully.
She had lightsat home.The storm passed as we hit Lowell, but I hit it again on myreturn to the New Hampshire den I inhabit torrential rain, moreheavenly fireworks, and, finally, the sudden need for ABS becausesomeone else had proven ... unwise.Only time will prove it, but the Daewoo looks like seriouscompetition.
Daughter I can't call her the kid anymore ischecking the budget to see if, maybe ....
Wait a year, kid.The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories, inadvance, for use by NYTimes News Service clients.AUTO-REVIEW (Undated) The Korean-made Daewoo won't be on theUS market until September, but it's a lot of car for the money.
ByJohn R. White.
(l and f coding.
)FINANCE-HOOKER (Undated) You're off to a good start inplanning for retirement, and a lower-paying job won't slow you downtoo much.
By Kenneth Hooker.SAN FRANCISCO The San Francisco International Airport hasannounced it will seek to expand its runways, a job that couldentail filling part of the San Francisco Bay.
And that could causea landslide of environmental opposition.Airport officials say chronic flight delays, the increasingpopularity of air travel and the introduction of larger planes makeit essential to upgrade the 60-year-old runways soon.Airport officials said the possibilities range from filling theBay for extra space to building floating runways or raising themout of the water like bridges.But Will Travis, director of the Bay Area Conservation andDevelopment Commission, the agency that decides whether to issuepermits for Bay construction, said he believed the airport wasacting prematurely.The airport's parallel runways are only 750 feet apart.
Whileplanes can land side by side in good weather, all it takes is a fewclouds to force the airport to use only one runway, cutting in halfthe number of planes that can land.Over and over again this year, this reduction in the airport'slanding capacity has created a logjam of stranded planes at otherairports and caused hundreds of delays and cancellations in SanFrancisco.Martin said he was looking for a solution that would improve therunways' ability to function in bad weather and handle largeplanes, while at the same time reducing noise problems andimproving the Bay's overall environmental health.Since the 1800s many thousands of acres of the Bay have beenfilled in to build space for military bases, ports and airports,industrial complexes, even cities.Environmentalists say the fill has already endangered fish andwildlife, disrupted the food chain and destroyed more than 90percent of the wetlands in the region.They say that to meet the demand for runway space, the airportwould most likely have to fill in part of the Bay, creating a hostof potential wildlife disruptions.Among Christo's projects were a fabric fence that rolled throughMarin and Sonoma counties, and hundreds of yellow umbrellas heplaced on a Southern California hillside.
Academic note: Wavy Gravy 's Camp Winnarainbow for Adults which starts in Laytonville, Calif., on Saturday and runs throughthe next Sunday has added whip-cracking to the curriculum, whichalready includes unicycling, trapeze, improvisation and sleeping onmats in tepees.
Some years ago, cartoonist Dan O'Neill incurred the wrath ofDisney with a drawing of Mickey Mouse in an un-family-ratedposition.
The cartoonist lost a legal battle that was fought allthe way to the Supreme Court.Recently, however, posters heralding Janet Jackson 'sperformances in Sweden featured a photograph showing her personalhomage to Mickey: an X-rated tattoo on her inner thigh, based onO'Neill's drawing.
Linda McCartney was working on vegetarian fish cakes whenshe died, and a spokesman has announced that her vegetarian foodline will soon be expanded to include this delicacy.
Sales ofvegetarian food in England are said to have soared in response toher death.Among Christo's projects were a fabric fence that rolled throughMarin and Sonoma counties, and hundreds of yellow umbrellas heplaced on a Southern California hillside.
Academic note: Wavy Gravy 's Camp Winnarainbow for Adults which starts in Laytonville, Calif., on Saturday and runs throughthe next Sunday has added whip-cracking to the curriculum, whichalready includes unicycling, trapeze, improvisation and sleeping onmats in tepees.
Some years ago, cartoonist Dan O'Neill incurred the wrath ofDisney with a drawing of Mickey Mouse in an un-family-ratedposition.
The cartoonist lost a legal battle that was fought allthe way to the Supreme Court.Recently, however, posters heralding Janet Jackson 'sperformances in Sweden featured a photograph showing her personalhomage to Mickey: an X-rated tattoo on her inner thigh, based onO'Neill's drawing.
Linda McCartney was working on vegetarian fish cakes whenshe died, and a spokesman has announced that her vegetarian foodline will soon be expanded to include this delicacy.
Sales ofvegetarian food in England are said to have soared in response toher death.Well, not really.
But I am the 50-something guy you may haveseen in summertime Manhattan going about his business clad in coatand tie, dressy loafers (no socks) and what used to be calledBermuda shorts.
I didn't set out to become an ensign of men'sstyle, but one I seem to have become, recognized uptown and down bymy .
. . knees.
From Park Avenue to Broadway, Columbus Circle toWall Street, customarily blase New Yorkers see me coming and stepaside, not quite sure whether to shun me as a trampler of theproprieties or salute me as a breeze of sensibility.The answer was, and is, Not before Memorial Day.
There arestandards.
And to be perfectly honest about it, when the shorts goon, the pants go off for the duration, and Memorial Day has proveda fairly safe cutoff date.
There are no standards at the end of thecycle, however.
The pants come back when it seems foolish still tobe in shorts (last year, on Sept. 26).Not everyone, however, is quite so mellow.
A couple of yearsago, I was invited to lunch with friends at the Yale Club.
I worean appropriately blue-and-white seersucker suit, truncated.
We metin the second-floor lounge for drinks before proceeding to the21st-floor terrace.
But I didn't get to proceed.
When the waitercame to take a second drink order, he suggested in a tone brookingno dissent that I would be happier having another club soda and afillet of whatever elsewhere.
A Member has complained, sir.What I wanted to say to that hidebound Member was that shorts,or something approximating them, have been with us longer thantrousers.
That empires have been won, defended and lost in them.And that in many civilized places Bermuda, naturally, which isn'teven tropical, as well as innumerable other hot-weather dens ofrespectability short pants are de rigueur business attire.
But Ididn't.
I left, walking out as arrogantly as possible.That I have become a symbol of sartorial liberation says lessabout me than about what wimps corporate men have turned into asthey don their dry-cleaned dungarees, Missoni sweaters and $200sneakers to proclaim their dressed-down sang-froid.
Men on the gowear shorts firemen, mailmen, deliverymen, to name a few so whynot men on the sit?
Once in a while I do encounter a fellowcoat-and-tied shorts wearer, but he usually ends up being asalesman in SoHo rather than a captain, or even a noncom, ofindustry.
When it comes to having the power of their convictionsabout easygoing clothes, businessmen apparently have neither powernor convictions.
(Fashionwise, which isn't really the point but certainly is apoint, I like pleated cotton shorts in solid colors, with a seven-or eight-inch inseam.
Since mine is a weather-driven conceit, Idon't wear socks.
Knee socks may look great in Bermuda, but for myglands, wrapping the lower legs in anything defeats the purpose.And esthetically speaking, the sight of shorts anchored in darkankle-length socks is enough to make me think about putting longpants back on.
)Now that I've been wearing shorts long enough to be cranky aboutthose who don't and won't, and long enough to have been evictedfrom the Yale Club, consider this a call to knees, an invitation tojoin me in casting aside the legs of convention.WASHINGTON The chairman of a House immigration panel saidFriday he would hold a hearing next month into the shooting deathof a young Texan by a Marine anti-drug patrol.The shooting near the Rio Grande River last year prompted theDefense Department to temporarily suspend the use of soldiers incounter-narcotics surveillance operations along the U.S.-Mexicoborder.Rep.
Lamar Smith, R-Texas, voiced frustration at the slowresponse from the Justice and Defense departments on his requestsfor information and documents about the death on May 20, 1997, ofEsequiel Hernandez, 18.Smith wants transcripts of radio conversations among theMarines, Border Patrol and other federal agencies when the four-manpatrol was given the order to shoot Hernandez.
The Marines wereworking in conjunction with the Border Patrol at the time of theshooting.Smith also is asking for records on training and supervision ofarmed military patrols that served on anti-drug patrols along theborder.State and federal grand juries that investigated the shootingdid not indict Marine Cpl.
Clemente Banuelos, who admitted toshooting Hernandez with an M-16 rifle after the civilian fired his.22-caliber rifle at the four camouflaged Marines.The shooting occurred at dusk, several miles from the Rio Grandeand near the border town of Redford, in a rugged border corridorthat attracts smugglers.
Hernandez was herding his family's goatsat the time of the shooting, and family members have said henormally carried a gun for protection.The immigration subcommittee has subpoenaed documents presentedto the grand juries, as well as policy directives and positionstatements from the Justice and Defense departments.The congressman agreed to push back a Friday deadline for theinformation from the Defense Department after Navy Secretary JohnDalton pledged full cooperation with the lawmaker's investigation.Smith also accused the Justice Department of failing to producedocuments sought by the committee for months.The Fort Worth Star-Telegram plans to move the following storiesfor clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs of Saturday, June6, and thereafter.
If you have any questions, please call LouHudson, Paul Wagner or Jim Peipert on the Star-Telegram'sNational/Foreign Desk at (817) 390-7785.
Investors who skip blithely from fund to fund, beware.
Morefunds are imposing redemption fees to trip up those who are fleetof foot, fund experts say, and the fees are carrying nastierstings.Unlike back-end loads, or deferred sales charges typicallyused to pay brokers redemption fees are returned to the fund'sasset base.
They average 1 percent of the assets being redeemed andare intended to discourage short-term players, like market timersor those who simply change their minds a lot.The fees, however, are usually not imposed for long.
Accordingto Lipper Analytical Services, a research firm based in Summit,N.J., the average redemption fee is in effect for about sevenmonths from the date of purchase.
After that, investors can get outwithout paying a toll.Among the fund companies that are upping the redemption ante isFidelity Investments, the industry giant.
A number of Fidelityfunds already carry redemption fees of up to 1.5 percent, typicallyfor redemptions within 90 days of purchase.
But the new FidelitySmall Cap Stock fund charges 3 percent and the fee is levied ifan investor skips within the first three years.Does that sound like a long time to stick around?
Consider thefive-year tenure required by tax-managed funds from the VanguardGroup, which impose a redemption fee that slides from 2 percent to1 percent.Some of the rules are a mite tricky.
At Bridgeway CapitalManagement, both Bridgeway Ultra-Large 35 Index and BridgewayUltra-Small Index come with permanent redemption fees, but with atwist: The 2 percent toll will be assessed, at the fund'sdiscretion, only if an investor sells after the Standard Poor's500-stock index has fallen by 5 percent in the five previoustrading days.Fickle investors take note: One way or another you're going topay to play.GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip For three months, Palestinian PresidentYasser Arafat has watched warily while a political rival, SheikhAhmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of the militant Hamas movement,has been received almost like a head of state by nearly a dozenMuslim countries.Tired of months without progress in peace talks with Israel, theIslamic nations are signaling their dissatisfaction with thehard-line policies of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu byboosting the prestige of the Palestinian militant in a way thatplays to their own grumbling opposition.Most analysts agree that the warm reception Yassin has receivedrepresents a fresh challenge to Arafat's rule.
And the timingcouldn't be worse for the Palestinian leader's sagging popularity.Months of stalled peace negotiations and a stagnant economy havehelped tug Arafat's approval rating down to less than 50 percent.Adding to these difficulties, Yassin, a 61-year-old paraplegicwho is nearly blind and suffers from lung ailments, has beentouring hard-line Arab states such as Syria and Iran and moderatestates such as Saudi Arabia with a message likely to rankle Arafateven more: No peace with Israel.The danger to Arafat has not been lost on the government heheads, the Palestinian Authority.
Officials in Gaza try to downplaythe threat Yassin's whirlwind tour poses to Arafat's rule byspinning the high-profile visits as a warning to Netnayahu.But in a move that reflected Arafat's concern, the Palestiniangovernment asked Jordan, home to about 3 million Palestinians, notto grant Yassin entry.
So far, Jordan, Lebanon and South Africahave refused to allow the sheikh an entry visa, according to aHamas leader in Gaza.Yassin's trip began with a low-key request by the sheikh tovisit Egypt for medical treatment.
In April, Israel gave himpermission to leave Gaza on a diplomatic passport issued by thePalestinian Authority, and Hamas leaders expect Israel to allow himto return to Gaza without incident.
Israeli security services havebeen debating whether or not to let him return.From Egypt, Yassin went to Saudi Arabia to attend the annualpilgrimage to Mecca, which every Muslim is obligated to make atleast once in his or her lifetime.
But something unusual occurred.When the Hamas leader arrived in Saudi Arabia, its leaders, KingFahd, and Prince Abdallah, asked to see him.
Within weeks, Qatar,the United Arab Emirates, Iran and Yemen also extended invitations.In each country, Yassin was received by kings, princes andpresidents.Next, the sheikh traveled to Kuwait, Syria and the Sudan, whoseIslamic president, Mazjoub Khalifa, suggested setting up a charityto aid the Palestinians.
Hamas officials say they were even tryingto set up a meeting between Yassin and Saddam Hussein in Iraq.
Fromthere, the Hamas leader may go to Pakistan, the first Islamicnation to detonate a nuclear device, and Malaysia, the mostpopulous Islamic country in the world.Yassin's tour comes as relations between the PalestinianAuthority and Hamas remain at their lowest level since last fall,when the Hamas leader was let out of an Israeli prison, part of aswap with Jordan for captured Israeli intelligence agents who hadbotched an attempt to assassinate a Hamas official in Amman.Arafat, apparently concerned that Hamas would take revenge bysetting off another suicide bomb and blow away his chance to wrestterritory from Netanyahu, found evidence implicating another Hamasmilitant in Sharif's death.
Then Arafat silenced the Hamas leaderswho claimed otherwise by throwing them all into jail.But the attention on Yassin has boosted Hamas' standing, both athome and abroad.
Usually supported by no more than 10 percent ofthe Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, the most recent polltaken by a Jerusalem-based Palestinian think tank shows that aboutone of every four Palestinians now sympathizes with Hamas.Some of the countries that received Yassin were likely motivatedby animosity toward Arafat.
There is little good will from SyrianPresident Hafez Assad toward the Palestinian leader.
And Kuwait'sprinces still have not forgiven Arafat for supporting Iraq duringthe Persian Gulf War.But the motivation of other states that receive Yassin is farmore complex.
Most of the leaders who welcomed Yassin are battlingIslamic fundamentalist opposition groups.
The strategy in thesecountries has been to appease and thereby contain them.
One theoryis that they are doing the same with Hamas.For Hamas to play along may signal the beginning of theorganization's slow transformation from a militant movementresponsible for suicide bombings to an open political party, saidKhatib.Support for Hamas is usually an accurate barometer forPalestinian support for the peace process.
When negotiations gowell, support for Hamas plummets.
Conversely, when negotiationsfail, as they have done for 15 months, support for Hamas increases.But this time, Hamas is reading both the newfound support in thePalestinian street, and the grand welcomes Yassin has receivedabroad, as approval for its strategy of violent resistance ratherthan a measure of popular displeasure with the peace process.NEW YORK It's midnight on a Saturday and a battle is on in theBronx.
Tammy Keo, 12, is squared against Marcos Oquendo, 19.Despite the David-and-Goliath mismatch Tammy, known as Lady LoveBug, stands 4 foot 10, and Oquendo, known as 2 Sweet, is 6 foot 2 there's no turning back.The young challenger stuffs her ponytails under a knitted capand reties the fat shoelaces of her Adidas sneakers.
Her opponenttucks his sleeveless jersey into his boxers.
Both are ready for thethree-minute round before 300 spectators at the Hunt's PointCommunity Center.
In this arena, skill isn't determined by one'sleft hook or right jab.
The rules are as they've always been: Maythe fanciest footwork win.Such scenes were common 15 years ago, when no street corner orsubway platform was safe from bandanna-wearing breakdancers andtheir behemoth boom boxes.
The pulsating street theater indigenousto New York and its spoken accompaniment rap were at theforefront of the cultural flowering called hip-hop.
Hollywood mademovies about breakdancing, dancers performed at the White House andthe sky seemed the limit.Breakdancing, along with tagging (graffiti writing), emceeingand deejaying the pillars of hip-hop culture grew into a way oflife.The retro-'80s vibe that is behind breakdancing's return in theinner city can be traced back in part to a nostalgia for a moreinnocent period of hip-hop.
There is a backlash against theexcessive violence and materialism that has been extolled bygangsta rap for the last decade, culminating in the murders ofTupak Shakur and Notorious B.I.G.
B-boys and B-girls say that theirdance style represents a return to times when people could competeand live to tell about it.SAN FRANCISCO Some habits are hard to break.
From the late1960s to the early 1990s, the Grateful Dead were on the road almostevery year, playing down-home improvisational rock for twirling,tie-dyed Dead Heads.Three years after the death of Jerry Garcia, his fellow membersof the Grateful Dead are back together as the core of a new band,the Other Ones, that sets out to resurrect and extend the Dead'slegacy.The band made a triumphant hometown debut in San Francisco onThursday night at the Warfield Theater for a sold-out house of2,400 people who arrived with loyal but guarded expectations andleft the concert jubilant.The Other Ones include Hart, Bob Weir on guitar and Phil Lesh onbass, Dead members since the 1960s, and Bruce Hornsby on keyboards,who toured with the Dead in the 1990s.
Mark Karan and Steve Kimockon guitars, Dave Ellis on saxophones and John Molo on drumscomplete the new band.
Drummer Bill Kreutzmann, the other survivingfounder of the Dead, has retired.This summer, the new band is to headline the third FurthurFestival, an annual package tour of Dead-related bands.
It goes tothe Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., on June 29and the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y., on June 30.
Hart saidthe Other Ones had made no plans beyond the summer.For their debut, the Other Ones had two things that the GratefulDead did not: nearly a month of daily rehearsals (including achange of guitarist in the last week) and a set list that waschosen before the band appeared onstage.
But like the Dead, theOther Ones rely on the chemistry of the moment.The Dead brought the security of American roots music country,blues, Appalachian music, rhythm-and-blues, even touches of Latinrhythm to psychedelic wanderings; they made good-timey excursionsout of songs haunted by death and uncertainty.
The two sets by theOther Ones became both a reminder of what the Dead accomplished anda glimpse of new prospects.In more than three hours of music, the Other Ones celebrated theDead with the Dead's own limber, open-ended curiosity, bolstered bythe kind of thorough practice and rejuvenated energy that thelatter-day Dead had lost.NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGitholding catdgory.
If you need assistance in setting this up, pleasecall IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.BONN, Germany With rescue efforts virtually ended afterGermany's worst rail crash in more than 50 years, officials saidFriday that the death toll stood at 96.
The accident was sogruesome that most of the bodies were mutilated beyondidentification.The train, Inter-City-Express 884, slammed into asteel-reinforced concrete overpass at 125 mph on Wednesday in thenorthern German town of Eschede.
Rescue officials said Friday thatthere was an increasing belief among investigators that a brokenwheel flung the train from the tracks as it passed over a switchjust before it hit the road overpass.On Wednesday investigators found damage to the tracks aboutthree and a half miles south of the crash, suggesting that thewheel broke at that point.Rescue officials in Eschede said Friday that only 19 of the deadhad been formally identified.
Even traditional methods ofidentification, like using dental records, were proving impossiblebecause of extensive head injuries.
Police say they want to sparerelatives from seeing the mangled bodies until authorities are sureof their identities.German authorities withdrew 60 of the 104 high-speedInter-City-Express trains from service Thursday so that they couldbe inspected for fatigue in their undercarriages.
Ten of themreturned to service Friday.Some people in Hamburg the scheduled destination of Inter-City884 from Munich and in Hanover, 35 miles south of the wreck,placed flowers next to the tracks.Veit Steinle, a spokesman for the Transport Ministry in Bonn,said that investigators had discovered debris along the trackbefore the overpass and that there was evidence that the train hadfinally swayed out of control some 300 yards before Eschede.But officials said it could take weeks or months before anofficial inquiry reported on the cause of the crash.Political gyrations, economic turmoil, crashing stock markets,embattled currency, collapsing tax revenue.
In such troubled times,Russia might be forgiven for leaning hard on the one thing it cancount on: oil and natural-gas exports, paid for in dollars.
Someinvestors worry that a sorely pressed government might flood thealready glutted world oil market and depress prices further.Far from ramping up production, the Russian oil industry has hadto cut output by about 60,000 barrels a day because low prices about $11 a barrel for Russian exports, down from $18 a year ago and high production costs have made some wells uneconomical, Ms.Hittle said.Russia is the world's third-largest oil producer, after SaudiArabia and Venezuela, with a big domestic industry and vastreserves, and it has a long history of using its output for its ownpolitical and economic purposes, ignoring the efforts of theOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries of which it is nota member to manage world supplies.Now, though, Russia's ability to squeeze more income from oildepends on whether OPEC can agree to raise prices by cuttingproduction at its next meeting, later this month in Vienna,Austria.
Russia plans to send a representative to the meeting, andis considering joining OPEC.In advance of the meeting, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela agreed onThursday with Mexico, which is not a member, to cut theirproduction by 450,000 barrels a day.
Those three nations led acoalition that managed to win agreement for production cuts lastMarch, temporarily buoying prices.Instead, to raise cash, the government has sought to privatizesome of the industry.
But prices for domestic oil companies provedjust as disappointing as the price of oil.
The government tried toget $2.1 billion for RAO Rosneft, a huge energy company, but foundno interested buyers; it recently had to drop the asking price to$1.6 billion to attract bids.Russian oil-industry executives, who were flexing politicalmuscles at home and in neighboring nations a year or two ago whenoil fetched $18 to $20 a barrel, are on the defensive, pleading forgovernment help with tax cuts and lower pipeline fees.They are in a bind.
Antiquated equipment at the wellhead makestrimming production a one-way proposition at many wells; once theyare shut down, it would be very expensive to restart them.
But atcurrent oil prices, many of the same wells lose money on everybarrel.Unless OPEC and other major producers can agree to make anotherproduction cut, like one agreed upon in March, many analysts sayoil prices may fall further, adding to the burdens of the economy.Russia exports about 25 percent of its output of about 6.2million barrels a day, yielding 45 percent of the country'sforeign-currency income.
Production peaked in 1988, when mostEastern European countries were still captive customers, at 11.4million barrels a day, but in the collapse of communism the nextyear, output fell by nearly half.Domestic energy prices in Russia are still somewhat shieldedfrom world market trends, so the Russian oil industry has begunlooking more toward domestic markets to help ride out the downturn.But ruble sales don't help refill government coffers with hardcurrency.Robert Ebel, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic andInternational Studies, a research group in Washington, said Russianproduction increased slightly last year, mostly because ofincreasing investment by Western oil companies.
But a lack of legalguarantees for foreigners has restricted the amounts that Westerncompanies have been willing to commit to expand production further.NEW YORK Nothing in the classical music world offers as muchroom for parody as opera.
The repertory itself, packed as it iswith implausible plots and peculiar characters, offers amplematerial, and there is even more to skewer in the practical side ofthe business, where the grandiose egos of divas, directors andconductors to say nothing of the fervent partisanship of theirfans can be mistaken for parody by dispassionate outsiders.Turning these quirks into true comedy demands a deep knowledgeand a sincere love of the form as well as a high level ofmusicianship and vocal agility.
One can only parody greatperformers, after all, if one can approximate their strengths whileexaggerating their weaknesses.
The Gran Scena Opera Company atroupe of male singers who dress and act as divas, sing in falsettoand perform under comic stage names (GabriellaTonnoziti-Casseruola, for example) has made a specialty of thisspecialized brand of comedy since 1981.The group performed at Alice Tully Hall on Thursday evening foran audience that was enthusiastic enough to make an actual divajealous.Centennials usually call for a lot of clanking celebration, aperiod souvenir or two and perhaps some minor historicalrevisionism.
The 1898 observation, now under way in Spain, Cuba,the Philippines and the United States, is a tough one.
So much wasset in motion that it is difficult to contemplate how we got fromthere to here.Four months of fighting dispatched the remnants of a Spanishempire dating to the landing of Columbus and gave rise to anAmerican empire and century, with entanglements, entitlements andexpectations yet to be fully sorted out.The consensus of historians, whether second-guessers or those inthe academic mainstream, is that 1898 marked the death of one ageand the start of another.Consider the United States at the start of that year.
Geronimohad surrendered, but his haunts of New Mexico and Arizona werestill territories and considered foreign land to many on the EastCoast.
Americans commuted to work by bicycle.
Though the shift fromrural to urban was well under way, the United States still thoughtof itself as a nation of farmers and of Anglo-Saxons.
Foreign warswere for Europeans, the detested monarchs of the Old World.The city strutted its new muscle.
In 1898, by incorporating theouter boroughs, New York City grew from 39 square miles to 320,becoming the second biggest metropolis in the world, with apopulation of 3.4 million.
Only London was bigger.At the same time, the United States had learned to shop, passingBritain as the world's leading consumer society.
With wealth,unparalleled population growth, physical space and technology, allit lacked was a place in the world.That would be taken care of in part by the mysterious explosionof the battleship Maine in Havana harbor on the evening of Feb. 15,1898, which killed 266 American servicemen.
The ship was in Cubaostensibly to protect American interests while rebels tried toremove the hand of Spain from the island.
These rebels had beendepicted at first as modern-day Jeffersons and Washingtons.From 1875 to 1905, Britain added 5 million square miles to itsempire; France added 3 million.
The United States stretched fromone ocean to the other, but it was for the first time without afrontier.
European expansion, long condemned, provided an excusefor emulation.
How the United States could go from condemningEuropean colonialism to trying to rule the 7,100 islands of thedistant Philippines is one of the driving questions.As for justification, one reason was purely military.
A lot ofempires were prowling the oceans on the eve of the 20th century,and the United States needed strategic position.
But theSpanish-American War also marked the start of a strain of Americanforeign policy guided by crusader or missionary impulses.The war was remarkably short.
A superior Navy smashed theSpanish fleet in Manila Bay and off Santiago, Cuba.
The ground warin Cuba made Theodore Roosevelt, all of 40 years old, the mostpopular man in the United States.
He had resigned as assistantsecretary of the Navy to lead a volunteer unit, the Rough Riders,who were certainly rough but did very little riding in Cuba.
Theirbattles were sharp, vicious crawls through jungle terrain inkilling heat.Roosevelt, by nearly all accounts, had an extraordinary sense ofhis infallibility.
Spanish bullets were chin music to him.
Twoyears later he was president, after the assassination of McKinleyat the start of his second term.Under the terms of surrender, the United States took control ofCuba, Puerto Rico and Guam and paid Spain $20 million for thePhilippines.
The latter exchange completed the remarkableacquisition of big pieces of the Spanish empire: 50 years earlier,for $15 million, America had gained a third of Mexico after a briefwar.The surrender may have been hard on Spanish nationalself-esteem, but it was also a positive turning point for a countrythat had been in steep political decline.
By a predominant view inSpain, the country flourished artistically and intellectuallybecause it was finally free of the corrupting influences of itsempire.The United States held on to Cuba for four years and thePhilippines for nearly half a century, and has never relinquishedGuam or Puerto Rico.
The Maine may be forgotten, but the waves fromthat sinking have yet to flatten out.
The American century startedwith seven world powers and ends with one superpower.
Whoever saidhistory does not turn on accidents?AUSTIN, Texas With grand plans for the fall election in mind,state Republican stalwarts gather in Fort Worth this week to kickoff what they hope will be a historic year in Texas politics.What once was unthinkable is now within reach for the Texas GOP:a sweep of statewide elected offices, gaining control of the TexasHouse for the first time in more than 120 years and keeping itsslim majority in the Texas Senate.A key factor to winning is the popular and well-funded Gov.George W. Bush, who is way ahead of Democratic gubernatorialcandidate Garry Mauro in the polls.
Many Republicans are hopingBush will win big and help push other candidates into office.Those goals, if achieved, would be historic for the GOP inTexas, which for decades has been a Democratic stronghold.Republicans hope to avoid the controversy that overshadowed the1996 convention in San Antonio, when some delegates tried to barU.S.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison from being a delegate to thenational convention because they didn't believe her anti-abortionstand was strong enough.But when some 13,000 people assemble in one place, the potentialfor internal squabbles exists.
The convention's main sessions areon Friday and Saturday, though committee meetings begin Tuesday.Members of the Log Cabin Republicans of Texas, a gay group, havecomplained that, again, they had been denied the chance to have abooth at the event.During the past decade, social conservatives have gained controlof the party in Texas.
But they didn't fare well in the springprimaries when several statewide candidates aligned with theChristian right lost their races.Atwood and Glickman flew Thursday over the blazes in Mexico'sChiapas state that will probably not be fully extinguished untilthe country receives heavy rainfall.President Clinton dispatched Atwood and Glickman to Mexico thisweek to observe the fires, which have sent smoke wafting into Texasand as far north as Wisconsin.
About $8 million worth in U.S. aidwas sent to Mexico after Texas senators began to complain aboutsevere air pollution in Texas caused by the fires beginning inmid-May.Forty-one American firefighters, five U.S. helicopters andthousands of pieces of U.S. firefighting equipment began to arrivein Mexico on May 25.Mexican environmentalists have criticized their government fornot being prepared to deal with forest fires during a year ofdrought, and for failing to ask for international help sooner.While the United States and Mexico have a relationship datingback 30 years that includes training of firefighters, the countriesdo not have a plan for mutual aid in emergencies.He said the fires will probably be discussed at a binationalmeeting between President Clinton and Mexican President ErnestoZedillo next week in New York.Officials may announce then how the United States intends tohelp Mexico reforest burned areas.
Especially hard-hit is theChimalapas reserve, a stop for many migratory birds for the UnitedStates and home to hundreds of the world's most endangered plants.He warned that continued cooperation is needed to prepare formore disasters attributed to El Nino.
Next year, Atwood said, theweather phenomenon could present reverse weather patterns, causingflooding in Mexico and other regions hit by drought and fire thisyear.Glickman defended Mexico's attempts to control its forest fires,which began last January and have become the worst in more thanhalf a century.Atwood said an assessment of this year's forest-fire crisiswould also include the experience of Central American countries,where U.S. aid was also sent to help fight similar blazes.Also up for review, the two U.S. officials said, are variouscountries' attempts to reduce the practice of slash-and-burnagriculture.In Mexico, government officials blamed the traditional practicefor sparking many of this year's forest fires.
Peasant groups inMexico reacted angrily to the charges, arguing that many farmersare so poor they have little alternative to the practice.Normally, burning land in preparation for planting is controlledby farmers, who rely on spring rains to help extinguish flames.This year, however, many of the fires raged out of control becauseof the extreme heat and lack of rain.Glickman, who met with Mexico's Minister of Agriculture whilehere, agreed that poverty is the main culprit for slash-and-burnfarming that is devouring forests and causing fires that polluteair elsewhere around the globe.He's won five NBA championship rings.
He's silenced critics whosaid his movie theaters in Atlanta, Houston and Los Angeles wouldbomb.
He's even beaten oddsmakers predicting he'd be dead by now,nearly seven years after announcing he has the virus that causesAIDS.Brewer says no subject will be off-limits and that Johnsonexpects questions about the sexual recklessness that almost costhim his career and his life.Johnson, however, won't be grilling his opening week guests,which include Harrison Ford and Peta Wilson on Tuesday; ArsenioHall, Gloria Estefan and Michael Douglas on Wednesday; ChristineLahti and Kenny G on Thursday; and Gillian Anderson and Johnson'sformer basketball coach, Pat Riley, on Friday.A legendary stickler for preparation when he was playingbasketball, Johnson has also spent months doing rehearsal shows,and taking lessons from a voice and interviewing coach.Johnson is also getting pointers from Jay Leno, whom his showcompetes against in several key markets, and Hall, a buddy andformer gabmaster.Audrey Steele, senior vice-president for Zenith Media, a NewYork consulting firm, was impressed by Johnson during apresentation he made to promote the show to advertisers.
But shehas her doubts the show will last beyond its initial 13-week run.Whether the show is an air ball or a swish will be up to the manwhose been pulling surprises out of his trick bag for years.Today he is remarkably robust by any definition of good health,thanks to drugs that have been so successful that they have reducedthe virus to levels that cannot be detected.
His wife and threechildren are healthy.-- HIS HEALTH: While by no means cured, he owes the appearanceof remarkable health to a Spartan lifestyle and modern medicine.Like many AIDS patients on these new medications, he takes acombination of three drugs, one a protease inhibitor.Side effectscan include nausea, vomiting, headaches, backaches orgastrointestinal problems.
The drugs are expensive, costing $12,000to $15,000 a year.-- HIS MOVIE THEATERS: He's a partner in a joint venture withSony Theaters in Los Angeles, Houston and Atlanta, with expansionplans for nine more cities.
In Atlanta, where he already has onemultiplex theater at Greenbriar Mall, the financing plans for asecond one, in south DeKalb County, drew criticism because ofconcerns that public money would be used.
But the plan, which wasapproved by the DeKalb County Commission and will be implementedthrough the DeKalb County Development Authority, provides financingand interest rate incentives and uses funds from private investors.-- OTHER BUSINESS INTERESTS: Johnson recently became Starbucks'first joint-venture partner, with a location in Los Angeles.
He hasa joint venture with TGI Friday's, with plans to open restaurantsnear his theaters.
He also has formed California Urban InvestmentPartners with the California Public Employees' Retirement System,investing in commercial real estate.
And he represents AmericanExpress and Adolph Coors in TV ads.
Recently, he joined JanetJackson and record industry executive Jheryl Busby in buying amajority stake in Founders National Bank, California's only AfricanAmerican-owned bank.SAN FRANCISCO American League president Gene Budig will take abreak from his usual regimen of signing baseballs and getting intoballparks for free to hand out enormous suspensions, fines andother spankings to both the Kansas City Royals and Anaheim Angelsfor their beanball war.In case you missed it, the teams met the other night and gotinto a glorious old-timey cat fight, the kind they used to have inthe game's golden era, when men were men and had big knots on theirheads from strategically aimed fastballs.The spark was Kansas City pitcher Jim Pittsley's drillingAnaheim's Phil Nevin in the seventh inning, which led to Anaheim'sRich DeLucia hitting Kansas City's Dean Palmer in the eighth, whichled to Anaheim's Darin Erstad taking one in the thigh from KansasCity's Scott Service in the ninth, which led to Kansas City's JoseOfferman being hit by Anaheim's Mike Holtz, which led to a secondbench-emptying brawl in which Kansas City's Felix Martinezsucker-punched Anaheim's Frank Bolick and then ran from hisretribution.It was great theater no matter how you examined it fivebeanballs, 12 ejections, and one career essentially self-immolated.Martinez, who had already made a name for himself by kickingMinnesota's Otis Nixon in the face back in April and breaking hisjaw, became the first major-leaguer since the old Giant pitcherRuben Gomez to perform the hit-and-run.In that one, Gomez hit Milwaukee's Joe Adcock with a pitch, andwhen Adcock, who was built like the box the United Nations buildingcame in, went after him, Gomez ran in terror.
He was never thesame.Martinez, after sucker-punching Bolick, a fairly inoffensivebackup infielder, saw several Angels chasing him and fled.
Worseyet, he fled unsuccessfully, being chased down and slugged bypitcher Jack McDowell, who is on the disabled list.Martinez's performance was so inspiring that his manager, TonyMuser, dragged him off the field personally, and had him sent toTriple-A Omaha on the next three-stop, two plane-change he couldbook.Baseball could have used a really good feud among two of itslesser-lit teams, just to help goose a few crowds.
Better to havethe miscreants on tour than on house arrest.
Everyone likes to seea villain, just on the off-chance he might perform some newvillainy.
After all, why should the 12,020 who watched theAngels-Royals brawls have all the fun?This is a lesson professional wrestling learned years ago keepthe bad guys in plain sight.
Do you think Strangler Lewis, orGorgeous George, or Nick Bockwinkel, or Hulk Hogan would havebecome household words and living, breathing cash machines if theywere getting suspended every time they hit some guy with a chair, asuitcase, a ring bell, or another fan?Of course not.
They'd go from city to city, finding somefabulous new way to circumvent the rules of the sport just to keepthe customers interested, and more important, coming back.
Today'sturnbuckle rope is tomorrow's metal suitcase, and the day afterthat a forklift.Baseball's deepest thinkers, though, believe that villainyshould be dealt with administratively rather than by the rules ofoptometry (an eye for an eye, etc.
), which is why the Royals andAngels are about to feel the icy hand of Uncle Gene.He is expected to come down hard on Martinez, who is safelyensconced out of harm's way in eastern Nebraska, and on Muser andAnaheim manager Terry Collins, who presumably kept the war at aboil by sending the boys out to exchange fastballs to the softspots.
Since neither of them play, Budig could throw the booklet atthem, look tough while impacting nothing.This is a mistake, and a serious one.
Would it not be better tohype the rematch in mid-July until the good people of Orange Countyare at full froth, and then bring out both teams in spangles,flowing robes, and ring announcers cranked up on Sudafed andcreatine?The proper course seems obvious.
In these turbulent times,dignity gets you nothing; if it still had value, there wouldn't bethe X Games, or hoop earrings on power forwards.But no, Vice Admiral Budig will deal with the scofflaws himself,with a justice as swift as it is sure.
Men will be punished andtaught a lesson that will last with them for, uh, let's beconservative and say 20 minutes.OK, folks, here it comes the vehicle you've been waiting forsince Dodge introduced the new Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out thenew F-150 in 1996.General Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, itwas worth the wait.Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling intoshowrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle sincethe current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988.For 1999, the truck takes the name Silverado, which in the pastwas the designation for an uplevel trim package on the Chevypickups.The GMC version, which will show up in the fall, has a new name,too: the Sierra.To answer the big question first: No, there are no radicalstyling changes, such as those on the Ram and F-150.These trucks look different, make no mistake about that.
Butthey still look like General Motors full-size pickups; they're justa bit rounder and have some updated trim, such as new headlights,grilles and bumpers.Unlike the Ram and F-150, the big differences aren't in style,they're in substance.
These trucks are stronger, faster, bigger,roomier, and more high-tech than before and they outclass thecompetition in all of those areas.Take the back seat in the extended-cab models.
It's a real seat,with enough leg and knee room even for big folks.
And the thirddoor, which comes on the passenger side, is larger than before (andlarger than those in the Dodge and Ford), which makes it easier toget in and out.The new GM pickups' V-8 engines are more powerful than thecompetitions', too, with no penalty in fuel economy.
In fact, gasmileage exceeds that of the Ram and matches or exceeds that of theF-150 in almost all cases.Braking is vastly improved over the past C/K model and thecompetition.
The GM trucks stop 30 to 50 feet sooner than thecurrent models from 80 mph, thanks to large, four-wheel disc brakesand a standard, four-wheel antilock system an exclusive featurefor this vehicle class.The body is stronger than before, cutting down significantly onsqueaks and rattles, and providing better occupant protection.
Theframe is 23 percent stiffer than that of the current model,creating a strong foundation, and the frame is welded together,rather than riveted, to add to that strength.Reliability should be dramatically improved, too.
The electricalwiring, for instance, has five splices down from 92 in thecurrent model.
Ford's F-150 has 118 wiring splices places wheresomething can go wrong.There are some other great features about the new Chevy and GMCtrucks, too.
They come with a coolant-loss protection system thatallows them to be driven up to 50 miles at 55 miles per hour withno coolant in the radiator.Battery rundown protection is built in: It shuts down theelectrical accessories if any are inadvertently left on after theengine has been turned off.Even the windows have been enlarged for greater visibility.Brighter headlights and backup lights add to the visibility, andthe lights come on automatically when needed.Five engines are available on the Silverado and Sierra, a V-6and four V-8s, including a turbodiesel.
Here are the choices:Body and drive combinations are numerous: There are regular andextended-cab models in short- and long-bed versions, both with thestandard bed and the step-side bed and in two- or four-wheeldrive.
They also come with varying suspensions, from a smoothon-road configuration to a tough off-road one.The Chevy trucks come in three trim levels: base, midlevel LSand uplevel LT. Leather seats are available in Chevy and GMCmodels, as are front bucket seats.I've driven most of the new trucks, in both the GMC and Chevyversions, including the four-wheel-drive models with the sportyZ-71 off-road package.
I put one of those to the test on a ruggeddirt road from Oracle, Ariz., to the top of Mount Lemmon, nearTucson, and found the optional AutoTrac automatic four-wheel-drivesystem to be convenient for on- and off-road use.
The systemengages the front axle whenever the rear wheels begin to spin,automatically transferring power up front.These trucks also can be easily equipped for serioustrailer-towing.
The Silverado's Z82 trailering package makes it themost trailer-ready pickup on the market, Chevy says.
It includesplug-ins for trailer lights and electric brakes.
And a tow/haulmode in the automatic transmission changes the vehicle's shiftpatterns to improve performance while towing.
There's a button atthe end of the gearshift lever to switch the transmission intotowing mode.The cabs are comfortable, and there's room for six adults withthree abreast in front and rear.
Road and wind noise aresurprisingly light for a truck.I couldn't find anything bad to say about these trucks, exceptthat there is no four-door extended-cab model planned.
That coulddrive some sales to the Dodge Ram Quad-Cab.
Overall performance,however, outshines that of the Ford and the Dodge, and only theRam's V-10 engine has more power than the best of the Gms.Those of you concerned about the environment might like to knowthat all of these trucks' plastic parts are recyclable.
There are44 pounds less scrap metal produced in the manufacture of eachtruck that in the current model.The Package: Full-size, two- or three-door,two-to-six-passenger, V-6 or V-8 powered, rear- or four-wheel-drivepickup truck, an all-new replacement for the C/K models; alsoavailable in GMC version, called the Sierra.Highlights: Stronger, bigger, more powerful and more high-techthan before; significant but not outrageous restyling; built well;most powerful V-8 engines in the class; roomier than thecompetition; lots of standard safety features, including four-wheelantilock brakes as standard equipment.(G.
Chambers Williams III writes on transportation issues forthe Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
His mailing address isStar-Telegram/Northeast, 3201 Airport Freeway, Suite 108, Bedford,Texas 76021; his E-mail address is chambers(at)star-telegram.com.Fax: (817) 685-3883.
Check out his Wheelin' new-car review columnweekly on the Internet atww.netarrant.net/today/news/opinions/necol.htm.
Visit theStar-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:www.star-telegram.com) Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDTMonday-Friday.
Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.EDT Monday-Friday.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.
The night news editor, until 10p.m.
EDT, is Tom Oder at 404-526-5456.FEDERAL-DEBTS WASHINGTON A federal program that was supposedto help collect debts that are owed the government has cost $40million but brought in only $4 million, lawmakers complained at aHouse oversight hearing Friday.
Treasury officials offered fewassurances that they could make a big dent in the $52 billion innon-tax related debts owed the U.S. (Malone, Cox News Service 500).YORKTOWN-SURVIVORS WASHINGTON While ocean explorers from theNational Geographic Society were presenting a remote-control videotour of the American aircraft carrier U.S.S.
Yorktown this week,survivors of the ship toured their memories of the bedlam of amajor sea battle.
(Nesmith, Cox News Service 1000).CHURCH WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. How has the Catholic Church'sresponse to priest misdeeds changed over the years and why?
Moreattempts are being made to come clean quickly.
We'll include thehistoric perspective, perhaps a box on several cases and how theywere handled; and mention the existence of the Maryland facilityfor deviant priests.
We also will include the numbers perspective it's still a rare case when priests do things like this.
(Moffett,Palm Beach Post) .
(developing)WASHINGTON Despite reforms of its debt-collection methods, thefederal government has a backlog of $52 billion in delinquent debtsthat spurred bipartisan complaints Friday from members of Congress.Under the new measure, Treasury has extended powers andgovernment-wide responsibility for collecting debts that are morethan 180 days tardy, including student loans, farm and businessloans, and federally backed home mortgages.However, federal agencies have been slow to refer their debts toTreasury until they have become so old as to be deemeduncollectible.The law also authorizes automatic deductions from federalsalaries or federal benefits for anyone who has a delinquent debt.But little of this has taken effect, since it depends on developinga new computer program.
Treasury spent $5 million on such aprogram, which proved defective and has now been abandoned.Meanwhile, Dun Bradstreet Corp. sent an analysis to thecongressional oversight panel warning that unless the governmenttakes more care in granting loans, it will continue to make baddebts.Among the cases it cited was a company that defaulted on onefederal loan and then was given a second loan from the same agency,which it also failed to pay.
Later, a second federal agency awardedthe same company $200,000 in contracts.SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y.
Behind nearly every Medal of Honor is agripping story of the valor that earned this nation's highestaward.
But in its own right, the Medal of Honor itself has astoried past in its rise to what is now considered the world's mostprestigious decoration.Receiving the medal is unique and it involves such intensebravery in mortal combat, that two out of three recipients arepresented the medal posthumously.In additional to representing individualism and a person'sability to bravely rise above his colleagues, the Medal of Honordepicts the struggle of good over evil, the promulgation ofdemocracy.
It is the most exalted of all medals awarded for combatin this country.Yet, the medal did not always stand for so much.
Indeed, when itwas first awarded to soldiers in the Civil War after itsestablishment by Congress in 1862, the criteria for receiving theMedal of Honor, along with its design, were tinkered with more thanonce.
At one point, the Medal of Honor was being awarded tosoldiers from the Civil War who had managed to keep the Union flagfrom touching the ground during a battle.Then in 1918, Congress created other medals for bravery, such asthe distinguished service cross, in order to set apart thesignificance of the Medal of Honor, Gibran said.Two years earlier, a board of five retired generals appointed bythe Secretary of War were assigned to investigate whether anyonehad been awarded the medal for something other than distinguishedconduct involving combat with an enemy.In 1963, Congress again changed the criteria, now requiring thatthe medal only be given in cases where there are at least twowitnesses, including an officer.
That requirement, according tosome of the 163 living recipients who are in Saratoga Springs thisweek for their society's annual convention, has prevented manysoldiers and sailors not receiving the medal even though their actsof bravery warranted the award.Williams, 74, earned his medal on Feb. 23, 1945, while servingas a corporal in the Marines on Iwo Jima.
Covered by only fourriflemen, Williams volunteered to take out Japanese machine gunposts that were preventing his division from advancing.
In oneinstance during his four-hour ordeal, Williams mounted a pillboxand inserted the nozzle of his flamethrower through an air vent tokill the occupants who were firing on his unit.Indeed, Williams said two of the four riflemen in his unit whowere providing protection for him as he advanced to take out enemypill boxes were killed that day.Williams fits the profile of many of the living recipients,according to Jeanne Kirk, head of the Naval Operations Awards andSpecial Projects Branch.Still, the acts of valor for which they have been awarded theMedal of Honor, especially since World War II, will always be setapart from even the most impressive acts of bravery that now fallshort of the medal's criteria.SAN FRANCISCO A transsexual trying to join San Francisco'spolice force has filed a $3 million discrimination claim with thecity after her appeal of a failed psychological test was turneddown.Cristiana Rivas, 38, received a notice from the PoliceDepartment early this week that said an independent psychiatristupheld the department's findings that she was unfit for service andwas therefore disqualified.But Rivas is convinced she was discriminated against, citing herown psychiatrists' favorable evaluation, an eight-year stint in theNational Guard and six years as a top-level employee with theBureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms as proof of herqualifications.Angry and frustrated, Rivas filed the $3 million claim withDepartment of Human Resources' Equal Employment OpportunityDivision on Thursday and is working with her lawyer to put togethera lawsuit if her claim is denied.The Police Department said it could not comment on why Rivas wasdisqualified but spokesman Sherman Ackerson said the departmentdoes not discriminate based on transgender issues.But Rivas believes the department, or at least itspsychiatrists, are not comfortable dealing with transgenderapplicants because they don't understand the issues.
As an example,Rivas said she was referred to as a cross-dresser during her finalevaluation with a city-affiliated psychiatrist who then asked herto explain the difference between cross-dressing and transsexualismwhen she objected.Having fully expected to join the academy earlier this year,Rivas quit her clerical job at ATF in January and is now on theverge of having to sell her home because she has no income.WASHINGTON Despite President Clinton's opposition tophysician-assisted suicide, the federal government will not standin the way of doctors who help terminally ill patients in Oregonkill themselves, Attorney General Janet Reno said Friday.Reno concluded after a nearly seven-month review that thefederal anti-drug statute does not bar doctors from prescribinglethal medication for dying patients, as allowed under Oregon'sunique physician-assisted suicide law.
Oregon's 1994 Death withDignity Act, which state voters upheld in a referendum lastNovember, permits doctors to prescribe lethal doses of medicine topatients expected to live only six more months.Two doctors must share the dire prognosis and agree that thepatient is mentally competent to ask for medical assistance incommitting suicide.
Doctors, while allowed to prescribe lethalmedications, are prohibited under the law from giving deadlyinjections.At least three terminally ill patients in Oregon have committedsuicide with the help of a doctor since the law went into effectOct.
27.
The Oregon Medical Association, prior to the department'sannouncement, cautioned doctors in the state that prescribinglethal doses might result in the federal Drug EnforcementAdministration revoking their licenses to prescribe medicine.Reno, in refusing to hinder the Oregon law, rejected theposition of DEA Administrator Thomas Constantine, who in Novembersaid physicians prescribing lethal doses would be in violation ofthe federal Controlled Substances Act and would run the risk oflosing their prescription licenses.The Oregon statute, enacted by referendum in 1994, survived achallenge from opponents when state voters last November rejectedby a 3-2 margin a ballot initiative to repeal the law.The Supreme Court last June ruled that terminally ill patientsdo not have a constitutional right to have a doctor help them killthemselves.
But the justices, in upholding laws barringphysician-assisted suicide, said states may enact laws permittingthe controversial practice.NEW YORK Mary Donohue, former prosecutor and judge, castsherself as a compassionate and loyal sidekick, a lieutenantgovernor who is willing to follow, not lead.The former teacher who rose from being the head of RensselaerCounty's Junior League, to being elected district attorney and thena state Supreme Court judge, resigned last week from the benchafter being tapped by Gov.
George Pataki and GOP Chairman BillPowers to run for lieutenant governor.In nominating Donohue, delegates seized upon her longtimeloyalty to the GOP, a trait party loyalists claim is lacking in thecurrent lieutenant governor Betsy McCaughey Ross, who also washand-picked by Pataki in 1994 and is now trying to bump him out ofoffice as a Democrat.Donohue's acceptance remarks clearly had the flavor of arunningmate, not a boss.
She concentrated on the traditionallyfemale roles she has held: mother and teacher.
And she made littlemore than passing reference to her more recent careers as adown-and-dirty criminal prosecutor and a tough-sentencing judge.She went on to hail Pataki's efforts to cut crime in New York a claim that might ring hollow to her neighbors in RensselaerCounty, where violent crime has increased 33 percent since 1992even as it has fallen statewide.Pataki, who was asked to compare his current lieutenant governorto Donohue, said her support of his agenda is an obvious plus.Reissued recently as part of a series on business pioneers,Reich's subject is the financial strategist who in the 1950s, '60s,and '70s built Lazard Freres into a powerhouse among investmentbanks.
Fifteen years after it first appeared, it's still is anexceptionally good read if you're interested in why AvisRent-a-Car turned out so well, for example, or in the Agnelli orEnglehard families.
(The affable author, one of the best businessjournalists in New York, died suddenly of pancreatic cancer inMarch at 48.
)The legendary Meyer had a typical French marriage of a certainsort: a discreet, devoted wife and an eye that wandered widely overthe years, from chanteuse Claude Alphande to Jacqueline Onassis.Bella Meyer faded into the background; she survived her husband(who died in 1979) by only six months.Now the story has made a swell book.
It is not as much aboutgame theory that Nash helped pioneer as about the ways thatmathematicians lead their lives, and about schizophrenia.
Theperson who holds it all together is a pretty young physicist namedAlicia Larde, who married Nash.John Forbes Nash Jr. was born in 1928 in Bluefield, W. Va., arugged Appalachian coal town where his father was an electricutility engineer.
His Protestant parents were routinely demanding;in 1945, his talent for mathematics already obvious, Nash went offto the Carnegie Institute of Technology; by the middle of hisjunior year he had been accepted for graduate study at Harvard,Princeton, Chicago, and Michigan.
He chose Princeton, then, as now,the mathematical center of the universe.Already there were signs of the otherworldliness that was toplague him.
As a teenager he danced with chairs, played unfunnypractical jokes, and made clear his attraction to other boys.
As ayoung adult, he careened back and forth between men and women.
Buthe also possessed unmistakable talent, and at Princeton itblossomed for a time into genius.It was in his thesis that Nash described the concept that bearshis name: Nash equilibrium, or the situation in which each playerhas adopted the strategy that serves him best in consideration ofthe strategies of all others.
That carefully delineated bit ofmathematics, and a further contribution to the theory of games,were sufficient to win him a series of distinguished appointments:to think tank Rand Corp., the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study.
He fathered ason by his mistress, then married vivacious Alicia Larde, whom hemet in his course on advanced calculus for engineers.Nash's antics increased in intensity and frequency.
One winterday in 1959, he walked into the common room at MIT and announced tono one in particular that that day's New York Times contained amessage from a superior race in another galaxy that only he couldunderstand.
Nasar's book chronicles the long bigger saga of theparanoid schizophrenia that plagued Nash for the next 30 years,that severed his links with virtually every one of the communitiesthat had sustained him: the schools, fellowships, departments,friendships, children, and, in 1963, his marriage.But Nash's wife continued to care for him even after they weredivorced.
The bout of hospitalizations eventually ended.
His motherwas dead, his sister unable to take him on.
So in 1970, she offeredto let Nash live with her in Princeton, reasoning that a quiet lifeon the edges of an academic community would be better for him thanany other regime.Meanwhile, along a lengthy front, economics had begun movingtoward the austere mathematical structures that Nash and others haderected in the late 1940s.
The relevance of his early work to thedescription of everyday dilemmas had become clear.
Colleagues hadbegun campaigning for Nash's election to the Econometric Society and, in Sweden, for a Nobel Prize.At that point, reporter Nasar is at her best.
She captures thefurious competitiveness that accompanies the award of major prizeslike the Fields Medal for mathematics, and penetrates the swirl ofrumor that had surrounded the award of the 1994 Nobel.It turns out that conservatives in the Swedish Academy hadstaged a last-minute attempt to prevent the award to Nash on thevery morning the announcement was to be made.
Only narrowly did itfail.
In the end, Nash was well enough accept the prize and evento resume working, in a limited way.What is certain is that the worlds of business practice andeconomic theory are coming closer together.
And that the rulesgoverning human conduct are the same in each.FPL officials said customers are pumping up air conditioningunits and putting a noticeable but manageable strain on theirdemand.Palm Beach County residents have been dealing daily with almostrecord-high temperatures.
With a 50-percent humidity level, theheat index, which is how hot it feels when the humidity isconsidered, stayed just on this side of 100 degrees.The culprit is a high pressure system that parked itself overFlorida and has refused to move.
The first hope for coolertemperatures and a few raindrops will not come until the weekend.The temperature hit the century mark for the third straight dayat Daytona Beach.
The daily record high temperature at the NationalWeather Service office in Melbourne was broken for the third day ina row when it reached 99 degrees Thursday afternoon.
The old recordof 94 degrees was set in 1980.Wednesday, the state issued a health alert to advise residentsabout possible health problems due to exteme temperatures aroundthe state.On Wednesday, a 2-year-old girl died after a few minutes in herfamily's sweltering minivan.
Elizabeth Eunson's siblings and motherwere cooling off in a backyard pool Wednesday when she wandered outto the van, climbed in through an open door and got stuck when thedoor slid shut behind her, authorities said.About 15 minutes passed before the family realized Elizabeth wasmissing, said Detective Stacey Barrentine of the Pinellas CountySheriff's Office.
By the time they pulled her from the van, it wastoo late.Earlier this week, Carroll Vincent, 66, died of prolongedexposure to the sun.
He was seen sitting for more than 24 hours ina chair outside his Fort Lauderdale home, but passersby realizedtoo late that he was unconscious.
He was found Monday and diedTuesday at a hospital.And in Palm Beach County, a 21 month-old boy was brought to St.Mary's Medical Center Thursday after becomming sluggish during aswimming lesson at the BallenIsles Country Club in Palm BeachGardens.The toddler, who was also running a fever, did not loseconsciousness and was treated and released on Thursday, accordingto Palm Beach Gardens Fire Department Captain Richard Jimenez.Local residents resorted to sundry methods, both ordinary andunusual, in their efforts to beat the heat.In Martin County residents filled their rapidly warming poolswith 300-pound blocks of ice.
Ice distributors said they have beenracing to keep up with the sooner-than-expected peak summer demand.Palm Beach County residents were slightly more prosaic in theirquest for cool.
Hardware and home supply stores were doing a briskbusiness in fans, air conditioners, and anything else that mightget a breeze going.At a Home Depot in suburban Lake Worth, Assistant Manager HowieMurphy said his store was churning anything that might reduce theheat.Wagner, the University of Texas' defending NCAA outdoor highjump champion, concluded an injury-plagued junior season by failingto clear the opening height at this year's meet.
For Wagner, it wasa fitting end.Wagner's training partner, Mark Boswell, also was disappointed.The UT freshman had the nation's top leap entering the competition(7 feet, 6 inches), but could clear only 7-0 1/2 recently to finishtied for 10th.Thornton felt better after the 1,600-meter relay prelims.
TheLonghorns' quartet of Matt Ellis, David Aaron, Terrence Wakefieldand Calvin Williams ran the fifth-fastest qualifying time, 3minutes, 6.10 seconds, to advance to the finals.The Longhorns women, meanwhile, fared well in their bid fortheir first outdoor team championship since 1986.
The UT womenadvanced nearly everyone they expected to except for Liz Diaz inthe 1,500, and got sparkling performances from Suziann Reid in the400 dash and 1,600 relay.Reid, the national leader who won the NCAA outdoors as afreshman and the NCAA indoors in March, broke her own school recordin the 400 with a clocking of 50.86 seconds.
The junior alsoanchored Texas' 1,600 relay that recorded a season-best clocking of3:29.40.Feeling good was something that escaped Wagner and Boswell.Fighting gusty winds that played havoc with their approaches,Wagner failed to clear the opening bar of 6-11 to no-height for thefirst time in his life.
Boswell, a native of Brompton, Ontario,Canada, who was competing in front of his mother, three sisters,girlfriend and numerous other friends, passed at 6-11, cleared 7- 01/2 on his second try and missed all three attempts at 7-2 1/4.For Wagner, who competed most of the year on a left knee thatwill require arthroscopic surgery in about two weeks for cartilagedamage, Thursday's competition pretty much told the story of hisseason.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.
When high-end retailer Neiman Marcusannounces the grand opening of its Worth Avenue store in the year2000 or so, only island residents will know.To prove its target customer lives in Palm Beach and that itwill not be regional store, Neiman Marcus agreed not to advertisein major local newspapers, on television, radio or through massmailings for a year after it opens.That was only one of many conditions the Dallas-based retaileragreed to gain approval of a three-story, 48,661-square foot storefrom the town council by a 4-1 vote.The Mediterranean Revival-style building with two levels ofunderground parking will be on the easternmost block of WorthAvenue, across the street from rival Saks and the Esplanadeshopping center.Developer Murray Goodman, who owns the Neiman's site, also agreeto donate 19,000 square feet of land for a park at the southwestcorner of Peruvian Avenue and South County Road.
A 20-space parkinglot on Peruvian also will be replaced with a park.Architects trimmed 8,400-square feet from the original plans,promised valet parking and will pay for an extra police officer inthe area from November through April to handle traffic.In addition, Neiman's customers will park free, and others willpay 15 percent less than at a lot at the western end of WorthAvenue during the winter season.The Palm Beach Neiman's will advertise only in publications thatcirculate on the island and will mail only to zip code 33480, anarea that includes Palm Beach and South Palm Beach.No other Palm Beach store is restricted from advertising in ThePalm Beach Post, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel or on television,but Councilman Leslie Shaw wants the council to consider suchconditions for other major stores as well.Town planning consultant William Brisson said the store wouldhave less traffic and cover less space than a group of small storeson the same site.Wade, a Texas AM senior from Elgin, rolled his eyes and took adeep sigh after crossing first at the NCAA outdoor track and fieldchampionships.The Texas women had another good day of qualifying, advancingVaughn in the high hurdles, LaKeisha Backus and Kim McGruder in the100, Suziann Reid and Toya Brown in the 400 and their 1,600 relay.Elizabeth Diaz failed to advance in the 1,500 when her time of 4minutes, 22.18 seconds missed the cutoff by one spot.Wagner, the University of Texas' defending NCAA outdoor highjump champion, concluded an injury-plagued junior season by failingto clear the opening height at this year's meet.
For Wagner, it wasa fitting end.Wagner's training partner, Mark Boswell, also was disappointed.The UT freshman had the nation's top leap entering the competition(7 feet, 6 inches), but could clear only 7-0 1/2 recently to finishtied for 10th.Thornton felt better after the 1,600-meter relay prelims.
TheLonghorns' quartet of Matt Ellis, David Aaron, Terrence Wakefieldand Calvin Williams ran the fifth-fastest qualifying time, 3minutes, 6.10 seconds, to advance to the finals.The Longhorns women, meanwhile, fared well in their bid fortheir first outdoor team championship since 1986.
The UT womenadvanced nearly everyone they expected to except for Liz Diaz inthe 1,500, and got sparkling performances from Suziann Reid in the400 dash and 1,600 relay.Reid, the national leader who won the NCAA outdoors as afreshman and the NCAA indoors in March, broke her own school recordin the 400 with a clocking of 50.86 seconds.
The junior alsoanchored Texas' 1,600 relay that recorded a season-best clocking of3:29.40.Feeling good was something that escaped Wagner and Boswell.Fighting gusty winds that played havoc with their approaches,Wagner failed to clear the opening bar of 6-11 to no-height for thefirst time in his life.
Boswell, a native of Brompton, Ontario,Canada, who was competing in front of his mother, three sisters,girlfriend and numerous other friends, passed at 6-11, cleared 7- 01/2 on his second try and missed all three attempts at 7-2 1/4.For Wagner, who competed most of the year on a left knee thatwill require arthroscopic surgery in about two weeks for cartilagedamage, Thursday's competition pretty much told the story of hisseason.FIERZE, Albania The rusted hulk of a ferry, its bilge pumpsspewing water into the emerald green Drinit River and its dieselengine rattling, has become for hundreds of young men the last legon a journey to war.On the upper decks small knots of ethnic Albanians, some of the600,000 Albanians in Germany and Switzerland, squatted andwhispered among themselves.Six bearded Islamic militants with white skullcaps stood nearthe railing with thousand-mile stares that seemed to inhibit theconversation around them.
The milling groups and hushed tones gavethe boat, which shuttles each day the two hours between Koman andFierze, the aura of a troop ship heading into battle.The men have left behind families, jobs, however menial, andpeace to fight for a separate state with the Kosovo Liberation Armyagainst the Serbian military.Many speak German better than they do Albanian and know littleof their homeland other than the idealized visions imparted to themby their refugee parents in cramped apartments in Munich or Zurich.Most are motivated by a romantic fervor that must make up for anappalling lack of military preparation.The location of the training camps in the lawless backlands ofnorthern Albania has become the focus of intense interest.
TheAlbanian government, which since the collapse of its centraladministration last year has little influence here, says the campsdo not exist.None of the men interviewed, even those who said they had beentrained and were about to head over the mountains into Kosovo, werewilling to say where the training took place.The ubiquitous presence of men in combat boots and black fatiguepants in the border towns of Tropoje and Bajram Curri seems tosuggest that the camps are inside Albania along the frontier withSerbia.The counterinsurgency campaign begun by the Serbs in March towipe out the rebels in the central Drenica region in KosovoProvince set off the rush to fight by the young Albanians in thediaspora.Gruesome pictures of some of the 80 people killed in the Serbiansweep in March, mostly women, children and the elderly, were widelydisseminated by the ethnic Albanian leadership.
Exile groups putthe grisly photos on the Internet.A 24-year-old university student, who gave his nom de guerre asGjon and who was born and has lived all his life in Germany, satwith six friends in a small coffee shop in downtown Bajram Curri.He and the other volunteers will cross the border in a day or two.They will travel into an area where the Serbian military has beenpounding villages with heavy artillery for a week, and wherestreams of refugees are fleeing into Albania.Western observers say as many as 40,000 people could bedisplaced from their homes by the attack, which is intended, theysaid, to create a free-fire zone along the length of the borderwith Albania.The Serbs apparently hope that the zone, emptied of civilians,will be a buffer to halt the smuggling of weapons and supplies fromAlbania to the rebels fighting in the province, these officialssaid.The specter of Bosnia, where 200,000 people were killed andhundreds of thousands of Muslims and ethnic Croats expelled fromtheir homes by the Serbs, weighs heavily on the volunteers.
Allsaid Kosovo, where 90 percent of the 2 million people are ethnicAlbanian, would be emptied of all ethnic Albanians if Belgrade ispermitted to continue its military operations.Those who arrive from Europe are confronted with crushingpoverty.
The dusty towns in northern Albania often lack runningwater and regular electricity.
There is often no local authority,other than a warlord and his group of armed henchmen.
Many saidthey were still trying to adjust to the chaos, poverty andisolation.These are the sounds of Broadway, which is on a roll after yearsof hand-wringing.
Tonight, with the annual Tony Awards celebration,Broadway officially closes the book on its most successful seasonin history.Preliminary data from the League of American Theatres andProducers indicate that more than 11.3 million people saw aBroadway show this season, breaking the previous attendance highnotched in 1980-81.Box office income reached an estimated record high of $545million, a 9.2 percent increase over last season.
In December, 23musicals were running on Broadway the most at any time in modernhistory.
And the top ticket price for musicals spiraled to $75, a$5 increase.Actually, some ticket prices rose even higher.
Livent Inc.,which produces Ragtime, added a $1 surcharge making its tickets$76 to defray the construction costs of its new Ford Center forthe Performing Arts.
Then it established a $125 ticket thatincludes entry to a VIP lounge at intermission, refreshments andfree coat check.
Who says elitism is dead on Broadway?Another factor in the attendance and sales records is the waythe theater district is cleaning up its act.
Two renovated andrestored, state-of-the-art theatrical palaces have opened along theformerly tacky, now tourist-friendly, neon-bright 42nd Streetcorridor.Still, it was a bullish year on Broadway.
But will this briskbusiness spill over into upcoming seasons, or is it a mere fluke?It seems aggressive marketing from the League of AmericanTheatres and Producers is working, with Broadway trumpeted throughsyndicated television specials and upbeat Web sites.
(To see howthey crow about the season, click on http://www.broadway.org.
)In time, the reasoning goes, theater-going habits may take root,and Broadway could have new patrons for life.
So not only isBroadway not dying, it is sprucing itself up, preparing to sprintinto the 21st century.
HAP'S PICKSHere are my predicted winners of this season's Tony Awards.
Tunein Sunday night to see instantaneously how far off I was.The canvas is vast and the results are epic, as director FrankGalati deftly balances so many story lines, and Graciela Daniele'snimble, musical staging shows the clash of cultures in movement.
Inthe huge cast are such Tony-worthy performers as Brian StokesMitchell, powerfully towering above the fray as firebrand CoalhouseWalker, and the ethereal Audra McDonald as his washerwoman loverreaching out to grab the American Dream.
Peter Friedman is fiercelyprotective of his daughter and later amusingly aristocratic asupwardly mobile Tateh.
And the delicate Marin Mazzie strikes apersonal chord with her soaring soprano, turning Mother's journeyof self-discovery into the spine of the show.This is a great musical, one that will continue to moveaudiences for years.The same goes for Taymor's staging of the wildebeest stampede, afanciful flight of birds throughout the theater and a magicalassembly of puppet creatures that forms into a stage-high image offormer lion king Mufasa's face.
The Elton John-Tim Rice film scorehas been bolstered with songs featuring African rhythms andorchestrations.
The design elements are wondrous.
Still, theproduction feels like it hops from effect to effect, onlyoccasionally touching the heart as the film did.
Taymor's spectacleinspires awe, but she doesn't have a story that can fully supporther stage wizardry.Joe Masteroff retooled his script to make the homosexuality moreexplicit, and Mendes tossed out some of the conventional musicalcomedy numbers.
But the revelation is how the Kit Kat Klub's Emceeinsinuates himself throughout the production as a wry observer, andhow lasciviously Alan Cumming redefines the creepy character.The evening is his, though Natasha Richardson also brings newdramatic qualities to naive songbird Sally Bowles, wallowing indecadence and political denial.
Her convulsive breakdown during thetitle song is a nightmarish stunner.
The ensemble, which sings,dances, plays band instruments and fills various supporting roles,is a show unto itself.All of this is set in a theater converted into a Weimar cabaret,but this environmental approach is the least important part of thisin-your-face production.
It could easily be sacrificed if the showtours, as road presenter and investor PACE Theatrical Groupintends.
Meanwhile, life is likely to be a cabaret, old chum, forthe foreseeable future on Broadway.Manipulative Mag Folan sits inert watching television, barkingorders to her plain, 40-year-old virginal daughter Maureen, theironically nicknamed title character.
When gentleman caller PatoDooley wakes up romantic feelings in Maureen, proposing to her byletter, Mag worries that she will lose her dutiful servant.McDonagh and director Garry Hynes get delicious mileage from thesuspense over keeping the letter out of Mag's hands.
Audiencesympathies ping-pong between Maureen and Mag, eventually tippedwhen Mag dashes Maureen's chance for happiness.
What follows isboth grisly and heart-rending.Much of the play's original Irish cast came to New York, led byMarie Mullen (Maureen), a wounded bird with highly expressive moodswings.
In the smaller, but showier role of Mag, Anna Manahan is awondrous and wily malevolent hulk.
Also first rate is Tom Murphy asPato's glib younger brother Ray, misguidedly entrusted to deliverthe proposal letter.Garber is dermatologist Serge, wealthy enough to plunk down asmall fortune for a white-on-white, I-coulda-done-that painting,but insecure enough to need approval from his buddies.
JudgmentalMarc (Alda) feels personally offended by the purchase, sending himinto jags of derisive laughter.
Wishy-washy Yvan (Molina) tries tomediate the situation to disastrous effect.With its small cast, minimal set requirements andaudience-friendly comedy, Art could have a long future on Broadway,before spreading throughout the country in regional theaters.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.
If he watches the College World Series,he must do so with greater interest than most, knowing that he onceowned it.It was a feeling he seemed to have all season in 1995.Kotsay hit .422 with 18 home runs and 75 RBI for Fullerton inthe regular season, and he went 2-1 with an 0.38 ERA and nine savesout of the bullpen.
Nice.But once he got to Omaha, things really started to cook.
Kotsayhad gone 6-for-13 with a homer and eight RBI in the 1994 Series, soit's not like he was sneaking up on anybody.
But the way he tookthe Titans to the 1995 title will live forever in the memories ofthose who were there.
In the first round, he doubled and scored the tying run, putdown a sacrifice bunt to set up the winning run, and came out ofthe pen to record the game's final five outs and earn the save inFullerton's 6-5 victory against Stanford.
Tennessee was back for more in the semifinals, and this timeFullerton beat them 11-0 as Kotsay chipped in with an RBI double.
Then, in the final against USC, all Kotsay did was hit athree-run homer and a two-run homer and get the final five outs inrelief.He went 9-for-16 with three homers, 10 RBI, seven runs scoredand two saves in the Series, and left Omaha holding College WorldSeries record for career batting average (.517), sluggingpercentage (1.103) and grand slams (two).
He also tied the recordsfor home runs (four), championship-game homers (two) andchampionship-game RBI (five).Kotsay, of course, was the Marlins' first-round pick a yearlater, and made it to the majors by the summer of 1997.
Now thathe's a starter (and hitting .296 in his rookie season), there areundoubtedly many more glory days ahead.
But when it's College WorldSeries time, one can't help but remember the glory days of thepast.These business stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York TimesNews Service.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.GM-FLINT A strike at a General Motors Corp. plant in Flint,Mich.
is the start of what could be a series of summer labor brawlsfor the world's largest automaker.
And it appears two GM brakeplants in Dayton could again be one of the company's majorbattlegrounds.
(Wagner, Dayton Daily News) ETA 8 p.m. ET.MOTOROLA-FOLO A look at where Motorola ranks in its keymarkets and where it has to go to rebound after layoffs announced.Reporting will include coments from industry and stock analysts tosee where they think Moto should cut.
Perhaps more specifics onwhat jobs where will be cut.
(Gallaga, Austin American-Statesman)ETA 8 p.m. ET.NIKE Retailers have tried many strategies to sell athleticapparel.
Stores have been decorated to look like locker rooms.Photos of famous football and basketball stars have lined theirwalls.
Sporting events have been shown on in-store televisions.
Butin many cases, women have received short shrift, despite the factthat they are taking to the field, the pool and the track ingrowing numbers.
Footwear giant Nike Inc. has taken a step towardchanging this with its new Nike Women's Shops stores within astore dedicated to women's shoes and apparel that were launched inMaryland in April.
The nation's fifth shop and its first in Texas will formally open in the month-old Finish Line Inc. athleticsuperstore in Barton Creek Square mall today.
(AustinAmerican-Statesman) ETA 8 p.m. ET.FPL-RECORDS WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Summer's not here yet, butFlorida Power Light has already set records for electricity usethroughout the state.
FPL officials said customers are pumping upair conditioning units and putting a noticeable but manageablestrain on their demand.
Palm Beach County residents have beendealing daily with almost record-high temperatures.
With a50-percent humidity level, the heat index, which is how hot itfeels when the humidity is considered, stayed just on this side of100 degrees.
(Colavecchio/Mnookin, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.KETTERING, Ohio Rev.
John Long has conducted hundreds ofwedding rehearsals in his 30-plus years in the ministry, but hehopes none will go smoother than the one scheduled for today at OakCreek United Church of Christ in Kettering, Ohio.Long will be among thousands of transplanted or travelingIndians fans at Cinergy Field this weekend as the Reds host theIndians in night games today (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a daygame Sunday.
It will be the first time the Indians visit Cincinnatifor regular-season games.The Saturday game is sold out, but 2,000 standing-room ticketswill go on sale at 5:05 p.m. Saturday at Cinergy.
The Reds expecttotal attendance for the series to surpass 140,000.
The record fora three-game series is 152,565, set against the Los Angeles Dodgersin 1974.Joining Long for tonight's pilgrimage will be his wife Shirley,also a Cleveland native, and daughters Mary and Beth.
Also goingare Dave Higgins, Beth's husband, their two children, Hannah andAndrew, and Barbara Cassady, Shirley's cousin.Maintaining ties to the Indians hasn't been easy for Dayton-arearesidents, including Jim Dennis, an Oakwood attorney who moved herefrom Cleveland in 1976, when the Big Red Machine was at its peakand the Indians were in the midst of a decline that produced onlyfive winning seasons from 1967 to 1993.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.EVANDER-MAIN NEW YORK What's next for Holyfield?
WithFriday's cancellation, the next fighter officially in line isVaughn Bean, the No.
1 challenger in the IBF and a mandatoryopponent for Evander.
But his preference all along has been to meetLennox Lewis.
(Schultz, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.ET.EVANDER-HUMMER NEW YORK Friday's cancellation is the latestbizarre chapter in the strange career of Evander Holyfield: acolumn by AJC columnist Steve Hummer (Hummer, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.NASCAR-DECALS What's in a decal?
A lot of money if you're aNASCAR team owner.
We look at Bill Elliott's car, count the numberof decals and put a dollar amount on the sponsorship.
Why driverslove it; why businesses covet the spot on the hood.
(McCollister,Atlanta Journal-Constitution) WITH LAYOUT (This is the AJC's weeklyNASCAR page, which normally runs on Sunday but is running Saturdaythis week because of the race Saturday night.)
ETA 8 p.m. ET.GOODWILL-JONES Marion Jones, a former basketball player atNorth Carolina, has become America's best women's sprinter.
She'llchallenge Dail Devers and others in the 100, 200 and long jump atthe Goodwill Games.
(Fish, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.ET.INDIANS-INOHIO KETTERING, Ohio Rev.
John Long will be amongthousands of transplanted or traveling Indians fans at CinergyField this weekend as the Reds host the Indians in night gamestoday (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a day game Sunday.
It willbe the first time the Indians visit Cincinnati for regular-seasongames.
(Williams, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.TIBURON, Calif.
When you're tackling the highest peak in NorthAmerica, what's a mere staircase at home, even if you have toscramble up and down it dozens of times a day?This weekend, the 50-year-old Marin County resident will head athree-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,the tallest mountain on the continent.She's leading a particularly resolute band of 12 five arebreast cancer survivors, and the remaining climbers are young womendetermined to defeat the disease that afflicts one in eight women.The majestic, 20,320-foot Alaskan mountain, known to many by itsNative American name of Denali, is often treacherous, its weatherfierce and unrelentingly frigid, epitomized during a recent spateof storms that killed two climbers, one of them a would-be rescuer.Experts say climbers on Denali are often assaulted by some ofthe coldest, windiest weather in the world due to the mountain'sheight and proximity to the Arctic Circle.
Only about half the1,100 climbers authorized every year to tackle Denali actuallyreach the top, the others falling victim to frostbite or altitudesickness.Both expeditions, sponsored by the Breast Cancer Fund, a SanFrancisco nonprofit organization founded in 1992, were intended asmetaphors depicting the battle against breast cancer.
Aconcaguaraised $1.6 million distributed by the fund to various researchand advocacy programs.Knoble, a consultant who recently retired from her job as a vicepresident for Pacific Telesis, is herself still climbing a medicalmountain.
First diagnosed with the cancer in 1993, she had arecurrence last year and underwent double mastectomies.On Thursday, three Bay Area members of the expedition departedfor Alaska from San Francisco Sandy Badillo, a tennis pro in HalfMoon Bay who was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago; CathyAnn Taylor, a Sausalito mountaineer who has worked as a guide inNepal and Tibet; and Marcy Ely, a teacher and family counselor wholives in Napa.A mountain climber since she was a girl, the 50-year-old Elytrained arduously for two years for McKinley.
She won't be makingthe actual climb, however.
Last month she learned that the cancer,first diagnosed in 1991, had returned and spread to her liver andlymph gland.These business stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,June 6, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York TimesNews Service.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.GM-FLINT A strike at a General Motors Corp. plant in Flint,Mich.
is the start of what could be a series of summer labor brawlsfor the world's largest automaker.
And it appears two GM brakeplants in Dayton could again be one of the company's majorbattlegrounds.
(Wagner, Dayton Daily News) ETA 8 p.m. ET.MOTOROLA-FOLO A look at where Motorola ranks in its keymarkets and where it has to go to rebound after layoffs announced.Reporting will include coments from industry and stock analysts tosee where they think Moto should cut.
Perhaps more specifics onwhat jobs where will be cut.
(Gallaga, Austin American-Statesman)ETA 8 p.m. ET.NIKE Retailers have tried many strategies to sell athleticapparel.
Stores have been decorated to look like locker rooms.Photos of famous football and basketball stars have lined theirwalls.
Sporting events have been shown on in-store televisions.
Butin many cases, women have received short shrift, despite the factthat they are taking to the field, the pool and the track ingrowing numbers.
Footwear giant Nike Inc. has taken a step towardchanging this with its new Nike Women's Shops stores within astore dedicated to women's shoes and apparel that were launched inMaryland in April.
The nation's fifth shop and its first in Texas will formally open in the month-old Finish Line Inc. athleticsuperstore in Barton Creek Square mall today.
(AustinAmerican-Statesman) ETA 8 p.m. ET.FPL-RECORDS WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. Summer's not here yet, butFlorida Power Light has already set records for electricity usethroughout the state.
FPL officials said customers are pumping upair conditioning units and putting a noticeable but manageablestrain on their demand.
Palm Beach County residents have beendealing daily with almost record-high temperatures.
With a50-percent humidity level, the heat index, which is how hot itfeels when the humidity is considered, stayed just on this side of100 degrees.
(Colavecchio/Mnookin, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.EVANDER-MAIN NEW YORK What's next for Holyfield?
WithFriday's cancellation, the next fighter officially in line isVaughn Bean, the No.
1 challenger in the IBF and a mandatoryopponent for Evander.
But his preference all along has been to meetLennox Lewis.
(Schultz, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.ET.EVANDER-HUMMER NEW YORK Friday's cancellation is the latestbizarre chapter in the strange career of Evander Holyfield: acolumn by AJC columnist Steve Hummer (Hummer, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.NASCAR-DECALS What's in a decal?
A lot of money if you're aNASCAR team owner.
We look at Bill Elliott's car, count the numberof decals and put a dollar amount on the sponsorship.
Why driverslove it; why businesses covet the spot on the hood.
(McCollister,Atlanta Journal-Constitution) WITH LAYOUT (This is the AJC's weeklyNASCAR page, which normally runs on Sunday but is running Saturdaythis week because of the race Saturday night.)
ETA 8 p.m. ET.GOODWILL-JONES Marion Jones, a former basketball player atNorth Carolina, has become America's best women's sprinter.
She'llchallenge Dail Devers and others in the 100, 200 and long jump atthe Goodwill Games.
(Fish, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m.ET.INDIANS-INOHIO KETTERING, Ohio Rev.
John Long will be amongthousands of transplanted or traveling Indians fans at CinergyField this weekend as the Reds host the Indians in night gamestoday (Friday June 5) and Saturday and a day game Sunday.
It willbe the first time the Indians visit Cincinnati for regular-seasongames.
(Williams, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.TIBURON, Calif.
When you're tackling the highest peak in NorthAmerica, what's a mere staircase at home, even if you have toscramble up and down it dozens of times a day?This weekend, the 50-year-old Marin County resident will head athree-week expedition to the rarefied heights of Mount McKinley,the tallest mountain on the continent.She's leading a particularly resolute band of 12 five arebreast cancer survivors, and the remaining climbers are young womendetermined to defeat the disease that afflicts one in eight women.The majestic, 20,320-foot Alaskan mountain, known to many by itsNative American name of Denali, is often treacherous, its weatherfierce and unrelentingly frigid, epitomized during a recent spateof storms that killed two climbers, one of them a would-be rescuer.Experts say climbers on Denali are often assaulted by some ofthe coldest, windiest weather in the world due to the mountain'sheight and proximity to the Arctic Circle.
Only about half the1,100 climbers authorized every year to tackle Denali actuallyreach the top, the others falling victim to frostbite or altitudesickness.Both expeditions, sponsored by the Breast Cancer Fund, a SanFrancisco nonprofit organization founded in 1992, were intended asmetaphors depicting the battle against breast cancer.
Aconcaguaraised $1.6 million distributed by the fund to various researchand advocacy programs.Knoble, a consultant who recently retired from her job as a vicepresident for Pacific Telesis, is herself still climbing a medicalmountain.
First diagnosed with the cancer in 1993, she had arecurrence last year and underwent double mastectomies.On Thursday, three Bay Area members of the expedition departedfor Alaska from San Francisco Sandy Badillo, a tennis pro in HalfMoon Bay who was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago; CathyAnn Taylor, a Sausalito mountaineer who has worked as a guide inNepal and Tibet; and Marcy Ely, a teacher and family counselor wholives in Napa.A mountain climber since she was a girl, the 50-year-old Elytrained arduously for two years for McKinley.
She won't be makingthe actual climb, however.
Last month she learned that the cancer,first diagnosed in 1991, had returned and spread to her liver andlymph gland.MEXICO CITY Light rains throughout Mexico are helping thin thenumber of wildfires in the country, but the heavy rains needed todouse the largest blazes might not come until next month, U.S.relief officials said Friday.And once the fires are out, officials say, global agriculturalexperts must eradicate the slash-and-burn techniques responsiblefor countless fires each year.The fires and how to prevent them will be on the agenda whenMexico's President Ernesto Zedillo meets with President Clintonnext week on a trip to address the United Nations World DrugSummit, said J. Brian Atwood, administrator for the Agency forInternational Development.The number of Mexican wildfires have dropped from 273 on May 24to 143 on Thursday, Atwood told foreign correspondents.Atwood and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman led anobservation team on a three-day tour to assess U.S. assistance toMexican firefighters.The team visited the states of Oaxaca and Chiapas, where abouthalf of the country's wildfires are concentrated.The hot spot remains the Chimalapas jungle preserve in Oaxaca,where more than 1,700 firefighters are pitted against a network ofblazes in roadless, jungle-clad ravines.Atwood and Glickman spoke of the scale of the disaster in nearlyapocalyptic terms.
Nearly 30,000 fires have been registered inMexico and Central America since December.
Authorities say fires set by farmers to clear land areresponsible, but an intense drought in Mexico and Central Americacontributed to this year's wildfires.The practice is ubiquitous in Asia, Latin America and Africa; 20percent of the greenhouse gases put into the world's atmosphereannually come from forest and agricultural fires, Atwood said.Two days into the campaign for the November 3 election, Davishas already seized on his opponent's opposition to abortion to tryto paint him as an extremist.Davis is hoping a pro-abortion rights message will resonate withuncommitted women voters especially independents and moderateRepublicans whose support he needs in what is expected to be aclose race.State politics watchers say the message plays well with voterswho view support for abortion rights as a litmus test, but may havelittle effect on the electorate at large.Staking his own claim to the center, Lungren has sought tomoderate his abortion stance.
As governor, he says he would seekonly three changes: ending taxpayer-funded abortions and late-termprocedures, and reinstating a state law requiring parental consent.Well, get ready.
I mean, get ready.
Because it looks like it'sa-coming unless someone knocks some sense into the folks at NBC andTNT/TBS right quick.If you haven't been following this ongoing non-story, GeneralElectric's NBC and Time Warner's cable networks are consideringlaunching a new pro football league by as early as 1999 that wouldcompete against the NFL and its network partners, ABC, ESPN, Foxand CBS.Left at the altar by NFL owners when future TV broadcast rightswere auctioned off, NBC and TNT are looking for programming to fillwhat now looms as a gaping hole in their entertainment schedules.We can sympathize with their loss.
In the fragmented TV world oftoday, where viewers can and do pick from dozens of channels,networks have a harder and harder time attracting large,demographically attractive viewing audiences for advertisers.Pro football is still the best way to capture the attention ofone of those key audiences, young adult males.
Losing the NFL,which NBC and Turner did when they chose not to ante up thebillions necessary to stay in the game, cost the networkssignificant advertising revenue and prestige for years to come.Some critics of the new league proposal like to think of theplan as a revenge scheme.
Who knows?
Maybe vengeance is a part ofit.
Getting back at the folks who run the NFL would be great sportfor the jilted networks.
But the guess here is that, in thesobering light of day, the networks are far more businesslike thanthat implies.Not even the networks seem completely certain of that yet.
Onthe plus side, there may be some advertisers out there who'd lookat a new league as a viable alternative, given the soaring ad ratesbeing charged by the NFL.
Also, there may be some economic benefitsto the networks owning their own league eliminating the middleman, as it were.For now, executives at NBC and Turner will only say they'removing close to a commitment which they are likely to announce in afew months.Certainly, a new league is not in the interest of football fans.Salaries in the NFL, thanks to the new TV deal, are on their way torocketing to an average of more than $1 million per player.
Yet,quality is hardly up, thanks to constant expansion.Depth at the skill positions in the league is particularlysuspect.
Spreading the limited number of capable quarterbacks, forone, across a dozen teams in a new league will only water down aproduct like a ballpark beer.The viewing appetite for a new league also seems limited, atleast based on history.
Did anybody really watch the USFL, the WFLor, now, NFL Europe?Years ago, you could excuse Donald Trump and other millionairesfor financing franchises in startup football leagues.
Besides theirconsiderable egos, they were fueled by the memories of that greatsuccess, the American Football League.The AFL wrestled the brawnier NFL to the mat, sure, but that was30 years ago when the sports and television landscape was quitedifferent.The NFL had far fewer teams then, so there were far moretalented football players looking for work in the pro game.
The NFLhad become rather conservative in its play calling, too, creatingdemand for the AFL's wide-open style of play.
Further, lots ofgrowing, attractive markets craved pro sports franchises back then,and the American TV viewing audience was just in its infancy.Not only is there plenty of pro football, there is college gameafter college game every Saturday afternoon and evening in thefall.
There is a possibility that the new league would play in thesummer, but you remember how well that idea has worked in the past.The NFL, stodgy as it is, could use a good shaking up or two.Just listening to the incessant thumb-sucking debate over somethinglike instant replay makes you want to head butt your Motorola.BERKELEY, Calif. As the dust settles from the Democraticgubernatorial primary, we Californians should congratulateourselves on finally learning not to be duped by televisioncandidates.For years we were mesmerized, even intoxicated, by expensive,glowing television commercials with vivid graphics, flowing musicand easy-to-swallow sound bites.But Californians are getting smarter.
After two generations oftelevision politics, we're finally remembering that realpoliticians like Davis get to know their constituents over theyears through face-to-face, extended conversations.
Fundamentally,real politics is about building trust over the long haul.The point was this: Politics was hard.
Politicians had to learnto sweat, to take hard knocks in front of tough crowds.
The lesson?It takes courage to gain voters' respect.But TV politics are shown to TV audiences, who can't talk back.National voting rates have declined, from 65 percent of eligiblevoters in 1960 to less than 50 percent today.
Can this havesomething to do with the decline of real politics?We cannot and should not, however, entirely blame televisionwhich, in many cases, serves as an efficient means for engaging thecitizenry.
The trick is to achieve a balance, which is notdifficult.
It simply requires making TV politics more like realpolitics.An example: As campaign manager of a 1996 congressionalcandidate in Massachusetts, I noted that statewide politics thereare treated more like a sporting event than a soap opera.
JohnKerry and Bill Weld had six count 'em six hour-long televiseddebates during prime time in the months before the generalelection.Journalists drove up public excitement, and citizens crowdedaround TV sets in living rooms and bars.
The next day, the debatewas the talk of the town.But there is hope.
After nominating workhorse Gray Davis, let'sget some real politics going between him and the Republicannominee, Dan Lungren.
Californians should advocate a grueling,substantive, non-sound-bite set of at least five hour-long,prime-time TV debates.The networks will make money if the debates are publicized withvim and vigor.
And Californians will trust Lungren and Davis moreif they feel as if they've gotten to known them, at length and intheir own words.California's leader should have the courage to step in front ofthe crowd and risk a few rotten tomatoes, if that's what it takes.Our greatest politicians, like Daniel Webster and Abraham Lincoln,gained their fame on the public platform.
They look like giantsnext to today's celluloid actors.
(Michael Signer, a consultant in several campaigns, is adoctoral candidate in political science at the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley.
)More than 100 of the 10,000 Jewish children who left Germany,Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland on trains and then ships forBritain between 1938 and 1940 are attending the reunion, some ofthem meeting one another for the first time.Those attending the reunion, which started Friday and goesthrough Sunday in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va., aretaking part in workshops, hearing speeches and sharing stories oftheir lives after their escape.
They will visit the United StatesHolocaust Museum in Washington on Sunday.Most of the survivors now live in the United States.
Some havecome from Europe, some from Israel and some from as far away asNepal.In November 1938, Jewish leaders in Europe and in the UnitedStates appealed to major western nations to take in the Jewishchildren under Nazi Germany's control.Children left their parents behind as they fled to England.
Theylived with foster families or in orphanages in England, Ireland,Scotland and Wales.Eva Burger, a Kindertransport survivor now living in SilverSpring, Md., was 13 when she and her two sisters were rushed out oftheir home town, Vienna, Austria, and shipped to London in 1939.Burger, who only spoke German at the time, said language andcultural barriers made her new life in England more difficult.She was eventually reunited nine years later with her sistersand their mother, who had survived the death camps.
Her mother toldthem their father had died in one of them.ALLSTATE-SUIT (Los Angeles) Allstate Insurance Co. reportedlyis suing Los Angeles-based Building Permit Consultants for morethan $1 million in damages, claiming the firm persuaded arearesidents to file false claims related to the NorthridgeEarthquake.
By Gregory J. Wilcox.AIG-20th (Los Angeles) A hostile suitor has come a-calling at20th Century's door, and the Los Angeles-based insurer can't doanything about it.
American International Group and its affiliateson Friday raised its stake in 20th Century from 42.6 percent to43.2 percent of common shares outstanding.
By Deborah Adamson.JAKKS-REBOUND (Los Angeles) About three years ago, THQ Inc.co-founder Jack Friedman was ousted from the executive offices atthe Calabasas-based maker of computer game software.
Now he hasrebounded as founder of the nearby Malibu-based toy company JAKKSPacific Inc. By Enrique Rivero.WASHINGTON House Majority Leader Dick Armey made Bob Hopelaugh on Friday, but he bombed in Congress with an erroneous reportthat the beloved comedian had died.In another reminder of the perils of Internet news, Armey,R-Texas, spread a premature report of Hope's death after TheAssociated Press mistakenly put an advance copy of the 95-year-oldshowman's obituary on its Web site.One of Armey's aides gave the Internet story to Armey, whohanded it to Rep. Bob Stump of Arizona and asked Stump to announcethe death on the House floor.The news caught everyone by surprise including Hope, who waseating breakfast at his California home when his death wasannounced.
Ward Grant, Hope's longtime friend and spokesman, saidhe immediately called Hope's home to check the veracity of thereport.The mistake was no laughing matter in Washington, where Stumpand Armey were deluged with phone calls from reporters and Hopefans.The Associated Press quickly removed the offending item from itsWeb site.
News organizations routinely prepare obituaries onprominent people who are ill or old, but the stories, obviously,are not intended for public release until the subject is, in fact,dead.In corporate conference rooms, in dentists' chairs and overdinner, the continuing news about both Viagra and Monica Lewinskyappears to have accelerated a change in the way many Americansspeak about a subject that some would prefer be barely spoken aboutat all.In recent months, the subjects of sex and the languagedescribing sex acts and sex organs have been nudged a few inchescloser to the conversationally commonplace.
Many Americans say theyhave found themselves using words they would never previously haveused, discussing erectile dysfunction at dinner parties, talking totheir children about adultery, laughing (uncomfortably) at sexjokes told in the presence of people like their bosses.Dr.
Mark Schwartz, the director of the Masters Johnson Clinicin St. Louis, recently visited a new dentist for the first time andsays he became the audience for a battery of jokes about oral sextold by the dentist, a man, in the presence of a female hygienist.At a black-tie dinner at the New York Botanical Garden lastmonth attended by 1,100 people, Peter Bijur, the chairman and chiefexecutive of Texaco, strode to the podium and opened with a jokesuggesting that some of the floral centerpieces were havingViagra-assisted erections.One big reason for that has been the attention lavished by thenews media on issues like Gennifer Flowers' account of what shesaid was a 12-year affair with President Clinton along with PaulaCorbin Jones' graphic allegation that the president hadpropositioned her in a hotel room in Little Rock, Ark.There are many other examples: the coverage of the relationshipof Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado and Donna Rice; the arrest of PaulReubens, the actor who played Pee Wee Herman, on charges ofindecent exposure; the case of Lorena Bobbitt, who cut off herhusband's penis, and the trial of Marv Albert, the sportscaster, onsexual assault charges.Then in January, the charges that Clinton had an affair with aWhite House intern, Ms. Lewinsky, catapulted oral sex onto thefront page, trailing behind it unsubstantiated rumors of suchthings as a semen-stained dress and rumpled tissues retrieved fromthe trash.
Two months later, the Food and Drug Administration'sapproval of Viagra put impotence at the top of the news.Letitia Baldrige, the authority on manners, tosses a Viagra jokeinto lectures.
Robert Knight, the director of cultural studies forthe conservative Family Research Council, recalls parents chattingabout Albert's sexual proclivities on the sidelines of a LittleLeague game in suburban Virginia.Debra Haffner, president of the Sexuality Information andEducation Council of the United States, also volunteers as a Sundayschool teacher in Westport, Conn., and recently found herself facedwith an eighth-grade class's questions about why Ms. Lewinsky mighthave saved a semen-stained dress.Dr.
Tom Lee, the medical director for Partners Community HealthCare, a network of doctors and hospitals in Boston, recalls thediscussion that ensued at a meeting at his office when it wasannounced that one health insurance company would cover the cost of12 Viagra pills a month.One colleague told Lee that she did not believe the estimates ofthe average number of times couples have intercourse in a month.She suggested that men running health maintenance organizationswere authorizing more pills than necessary, in a kind of sexualswaggering.Neil Lewis, a 55-year-old management psychologist in Atlanta,was eating lunch with the chief executive of a company that hadhired him as a consultant on organization effectiveness, when hewas startled to be solicited for advice on whether the man shouldtry Viagra, the pill to treat impotence.Patricia Marx, a writer and one of a half-dozen women who tookpart in a round-table discussion of the sexual allegations againstClinton, the transcript of which appeared in The New York Observer,said it seemed as if new, usable words have been added to thedictionary.Again and again, news media coverage has legitimized languageand topics once considered taboo.
Stories with sexual elements arereported on the evening news, dissected on talk shows and picked upby late-night comedians, whose jokes resurface the next day at theproverbial water cooler.Robert Lichter, president of the Center for Media and PublicAffairs in Washington, said Jay Leno, David Letterman, ConanO'Brien, and Bill Maher told 729 jokes about Clinton's sex life intheir monologues in the first five months of 1998 (compared withabout 250 in all 12 months of 1997).The shift is visible elsewhere.
Karlyn Bowman, a resident fellowat the American Enterprise Institute in Washington who studiespublic opinion and demographic trends, says pollsters are now usingterminology she had never seen in survey research.But last year, Yankelovich Partners asked bluntly whether thepresident should submit to an examination of his genitals ifordered to do so by the court in the Jones case.
A question in adifferent poll repeated verbatim Ms. Jones' description of what shesaid Clinton did in her presence.Not everyone sees a difference in what Americans are talkingabout.
Some say they believe that most people have always spokenabout sex and made jokes about it; the only difference now, theycontend, is that the news media are doing it too.Among those who do believe that things have changed, some say itis for the better.
Anything that makes people more comfortablediscussing sex is good, they reason.
Others, however, worry thattalk of sex is coarsening public conversation and edging out moreurgent topics.OFRA, West Bank Yoyoda and Tamar Nizri are staying put.
Forthe young Israeli couple, the wild deer and unspoiled landscapesurrounding this isolated West Bank settlement is enough topersuade them to remain.They don't think much about the prospect that their settlement15 miles north of Ramallah is likely to become an enclave in a seaof Palestinian-controlled land if Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahucarries out the long-awaited troop withdrawal that Clintonadministration mediators have been pressing.Their sentiments echo those of many of the 161,000 Jewishsettlers sprinkled throughout the West Bank.
Shocked by theprospect of living as Israeli satellites in what will likely becomePalestine in any final peace deal, many settlers prefer not todwell too much on an uncertain future.
Instead, they take each dayat a time and hope that their government will find a way to keepall of the 144 West Bank settlements under Israeli sovereignty.But as U.S. pressure on Israel to cede additional territory toYasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority grows, the settlers'ambiguous situation grows harder to ignore.
For months, Secretaryof State Madeleine Albright has been pushing Israel to withdrawfrom an additional 13 percent of the West Bank, and Netanyahu has,in public at least, held firm with an offer of 9 percent.The implication has been that giving up more than 9 percent ofthe West Bank would endanger Israel's security, but few people hereknow exactly how it would.
Netanyahu has guarded his negotiatingpositions so closely that even members of his own Cabinet complainthat no one has seen the official map except the four members ofthe inner circle.U.S.
mediators have not drawn up maps to avoid seeming to bedeciding on Israel's security, which they have said only Israel candecide.
The 13 percent figure was chosen so that the Palestinians,who now fully or partially control 27 percent of the West Bank,would hold an even 40 percent when negotiations on a final peacedeal begin.That means settlers have had to guess for themselves what thevarious proposals would hold for them.In 1996, they asked a Hebrew University hydrologist, HaimGvirtzman, to draw up maps so they could determine how much landcould be ceded to Palestinians while keeping all settlements inplace.Gvirtzman, a religious settler from the West Bank settlement ofDolev, determined that Israel would be able to withdraw from only30 percent about the amount already turned over to Palestiniancontrol.
Anything more would affect at least some settlements,Gvirtzman determined.According to Gvirtzman's maps.
which were eventually publishedby the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-IlanUniversity, a 9 percent Israeli withdrawal would affect about 1,700settlers living in 10 settlements.
If the percentage jumps to 13,about 9,000 settlers in 18 settlements would be affected.
Ofra,home to the Nizris, would be cut off from Israeli-controlledterritory.Amid these concerns, Ariel Sharon, Israel's formidable securityhawk and a member of Netanyahu's inner circle, has focused inpublic on military issues whenever he tours the West Bank.
Hefollows the Israeli consensus with the view that Israel must retainthe Jordan Valley, the Judea Desert and a wide corridor toJerusalem.But in his view, Israel must also retain the mountain of westernSamaria, under which a major water aquifer lies, hilltops nearNablus, where early warning stations are located, and a radiusaround Ben Gurion Airport east of Tel Aviv that would cut into partof the West Bank.While Sharon's concerns are aimed at Israelis, they have thepotential to affect tens of thousands of Palestinians who live inthese areas.Netanyahu argues that 98 percent of the Palestinian populationis under Palestinian rule.
But that figure is slightly misleading:98 percent are under the Palestinian Authority's civilian control meaning Palestinian officials collect taxes and run schools there but only 37 percent of Palestinians fall under the fulljurisdiction of Arafat's entity, according to Gvirtzman.For the Palestinians, the difference is crucial: Israelisoldiers cannot enter areas under full control of the PalestinianAuthority, but the Israelis still patrol areas they jointly controlwith the Palestinians, and they can still set up roadblocks, makearrests and impose curfews in those areas.Surrounded by more Palestinian villages than Israelisettlements, Ofra stands a chance to survive any further withdrawalonly if Israel builds a by-pass road connecting it to the JordanValley to the east.If that happens, the Nizris don't know what they would do.
Farfrom the stereotype of the settler armed with a machine gun and amission to reclaim the land of the Bible and prevent a Palestinianstate, the Nizris might move north to the Galilee region or southto the Negev Desert.Or they may stay near Ofra in their tiny home with their3-month-old baby, bean bags on the floor and wooden Indian carvingson the wall.ELMONT, N.Y. -- Bob Baffert figures he's done all he can do toprepare Real Quiet for today's rendevous with history.
Now, he justhas to hang loose and wait.That wait will end late this afternoon when Real Quiet entersthe starting gate for the 130th Belmont Stakes, the 1{-mile test ofthe champion.If the skinny bay colt with a crooked leg manages to win, RealQuiet will become only the 12th horse ever to wear the Triple Crownand the first in two decades.
Affirmed was the last to accomplishthis Herculean task, 20 years ago to the day.A victory would be worth $5.6 million to a horse that cost only$17,000, a bargain Cinderella that Baffert nicknamed the Fishbecause of his long and narrow build.
Now, the Fish has turned intoa shark, ready to devour his 12 opponents.Those gods have been smiling a lot on Team Baffert.
After earlyforecasts for thunderstorms, today's weather is expected to bebreezy and warm under sunny skies.
A crowd of 70,000 is expected tocome out to root for Real Quiet, Baffert and owner Mike Pegram.Several critics have blasted Real Quiet, winner of only four of14 starts, as unworthy of the Triple Crown.
But Baffert ignoresthem.No Baffert fans will be rooting harder for Real Quiet than Boband Beverly Lewis, the owners of Silver Charm.
The Newport Beachcouple flew to New York to watch another of their horses, Baquero,compete on Belmont Day's stakes-heavy undercard.
But they saythey'd like nothing better than to see Real Quiet do what SilverCharm couldn't.The Indian government said it they exploded five nucleardevices, and the Pakistanis six, in underground tests between May11 and May 30.
Seismic waves from those explosions rippled throughthe Earth's crust, and some were detected by seismographs hundredsand thousands of miles away.However, Western seismologists are investigating the possibilitythat the Indians and Pakistanis successfully detonated fewer bombsthan claimed, according to Thorne Lay of the University ofCalifornia at Santa Cruz, an adviser to the U.S. government onmonitoring of nuclear tests.Lay said some explosions may have fallen short of critical mass.In a normal atomic bomb, the fissionable material is compressedextremely quickly into a super-dense state called critical mass.This unleashes a flood of subatomic particles called neutrons,which split enough atoms fast enough to trigger an atomicexplosion.In 1945, an atomic bomb incinerated Hiroshima with an explosiveforce of 14,000 tons of TNT.
By contrast, a subcritical explosionmight equal 10 to 20 tons of TNT, the nuclear version of a wetfirecracker.One possible explanation, Lay said, is that the Indians andPakistanis might have detonated some bombs simultaneously.
Thismight have made it difficult for Western seismologists to assessthe true magnitude of individual blasts.Another possibility is that the Indians and Pakistanis may havedeliberately conducted subcritical blasts to test parts of nucleardevices, rather than full-fledged bombs.However, Lay said, it would be hard to reconcile this with thefact that India and Pakistan have referred to all the blasts asnuclear explosions.Other U.S. officials and test-monitoring experts confirmed thatseismographs failed to detect proof that all 11 blasts occurred asclaimed.Cochran recalled seeing a photo of a surface crater formed byone of India's explosions.
The crater looked unusually small forsomething allegedly generated by a nuclear blast of the advertisedsize, he said.Cochran said certainly one possibility is that Indian andPakistani officials overstated the size of the blasts.
Anotherpossibility is that some tests were conducted in geological terrainthat might have muffled the blasts.The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following generalstories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs ofSaturday, June 6 and thereafter.
For questions about stories,contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818) 713-3701.In 1989 in Canterbury, England, the world's leading experts onfrogs and other amphibians gathered for their first ever worldcongress.In the lobby, in the bar and in chance encounters in the hall,the experts swapped frog stories.
At some point they realized thatthey were all seeing the same problem: Their frogs and toads weredying not just in disturbed habitats, but in the most pristinenature preserves from brown toads in Yosemite National Park togolden toads in Costa Rica.Today the case of the dying frogs is well documented, but what'sinteresting is that no one still knows exactly why they are dying.So conservationists are asking: Are the frogs the canaries in ourcoal mine?
Miners used to take canaries underground with them; ifthe canary died, that would indicate the presence of deadly butodorless carbon monoxide and warn miners to flee.
Are the frogssounding such an alarm?Is it something mankind is doing, and if so, is it somethingthat will eventually threaten mankind?
Is it the increase inultraviolet light from holes in the ozone that is reducing thefrogs' immunity to viruses, parasites and fungi?
Is it chemicalsand pesticides in the atmosphere?
Is it rising temperatures?These questions were worrying enough for the National ScienceFoundation to bring together in Washington last week a group of topenvironmental scientists to swap research on what might be killingthe frogs.Worse, this loss of biodiversity is happening just aslife-science companies are making real breakthroughs in theirability to collect plants and animals from highly biodiverseenvironments and screen them for useful genes that can be isolatedfrom that plant or animal and then used for medical cures or tostimulate agriculture.For instance, it's genes from the rosy periwinkle, a floweringplant from Madagascar, that are now used to treat childhoodleukemia and Hodgkin's disease.
To the extent that we are losingbiodiversity through extinctions, we are shrinking this naturalstorehouse of lifesaving genes, and we will never have access tothem again.It also calls into question the distinction too often madebetween home and away, between protected areas and nonprotectedareas.
Home is where you keep clean, and away is where you pollute.But maybe the frogs from Canada and Costa Rica, Yosemite andAustralia are telling us that this distinction isn't valid anymore.Maybe they're telling us that home is home and away is home, and ifyou pollute one you pollute the other.
Maybe they're telling usabout the limits of our knowledge and warning us to do somethingabout the silent species we are losing through development anddeforestation before it's too late.
PARIS They eat clay, drink clay, sleep clay, think clay.According to them, they were born with their sneakers covered withthe stuff and have been sliding around on it since.
For them, it'sterra firma.So somehow it seems only appropriate that Carlos Moya and AlexCorretja, a couple of Spaniards who have lately been knocking onthe door of Grand Slam and top 10 respectability, have landed inthe final of the French Open.This Grand Slam tournament may be in France, which moaned Fridaywhen the Paris native, Cedric Pioline, disintegrated in straightsets in his steamy afternoon semifinal against Corretja, but thisyear the men's final belongs to Spain.
Just as it did in 1994 whenits then-defending champion Sergi Bruguera defeated AlbertoBerasetegui.Pioline called it a bit of a puzzle that, although France boaststhe only Grand Slam tournament played on red clay, Spain boasts theonly genuine bumper crop of red clay artists.
Spain sent 19 men tothis tournament, five of them seeded.The 21-year-old Moya, who first showed up on the Grand Slamradar when he took a sleeper run to the 1997 Australian Open final,defeated his training and dining companion, the 15th-seeded FelixMantilla, 5-7, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2, Friday to achieve his first FrenchOpen final.
Unlike his experience in Australia, Moya had beenfixated not only on reaching, but winning, this final even beforehe arrived in Paris with a Monte Carlo title for ballast.But so does his countryman, the 14th-seeded Alex Corretja, theunassuming baseliner who gained his Grand Slam notoriety with aKafkaesque experience at the 1996 U.S. Open, where hedouble-faulted at match point of his five-set quarterfinal againsta reeling, choking and nauseated Pete Sampras.After 4 hours 9 minutes, Sampras soldiered on and later claimedthat year's championship.
Apparently a glutton for punishment,Corretja set a Grand Slam longevity record with his5-hour-31-minute marathon with Hernan Gumy here in the third round.This time the resilient Spaniard produced an 11-9 fifth-set,tie-breaker decision.Like the taller, more nimble Moya, the 24-year-old Corretja hasbeen concentrating on developing his all-court skills, especially aserviceable volley, and Friday he used every square inch of thecenter court as he dismissed the exhausted Pioline, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.The 17th-ranked, soon-to-be 29-year-old Frenchman had played atrio of five-setters en route to his first Roland Garros semifinal.Friday, he could barely get his serve across the net, much lesscreate the flamboyant volleys necessary to detour Corretja'spassing shots.The 12th-seeded Moya, the highest seeded man left in thetournament, had the more treacherous trip to the final.
Heinherited the responsibility of eliminating third-seeded MarceloRios, the Chilean who had been favored to win his first Slam hereas well as re-acquire the No.
1 ranking, in the quarterfinal round.Moya's ability to get that job done steeled him for this one:friend or not, Corretja must be dealt with.For the first time since Wimbledon 1884, two sisters met in aGrand Slam final when Venus and Serena Williams squared off in themixed doubles final with their respective partners, New Jersey'sJustin Gimelstob and Argentina's Luis Lobo.The foreign minister, Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf, at a newsconference at the United Nations, angrily rejected Butler'sconclusions, presented to the Security Council this week, that Iraqwas still withholding critical material and information onbiological, chemical and missile systems.He dismissed as temporary and insufficient the oil-for-foodprogram, under which Iraq can now sell up to $5 billion in oilevery six months to pay for civilian goods.
He said conditions werecontinuing to worsen and more children were dying.But in Baghdad on Thursday, a spokesman for the program, EricFalt, said a recent World Health Organization survey of Iraq hadfound attendance at health clinics rising across the country, with50 percent of patients interviewed saying they were getting thefull treatments prescribed, after suffering shortages of medicine.The oil-for-food administrator in Iraq, Denis Halliday,announced recently that he would be allocating money to improveIraq's run-down schools.
Electricity systems and agriculture arealso getting larger shares of equipment and money with an increasein the amount of oil allowed to be sold.
The program was expandedearly this year by the Security Council, under pressure to do moreto relieve the hardships of Iraqis.
In a commencement address at the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Clinton also defended a law now under attack by thetelecommunications industry that would provide reduced costs topoor schools and libraries.In his address to MIT's 2,400 graduates, Clinton challengedstates to make technology literacy a requirement for students tograduate from middle school.
He pledged to provide $180 millionover three years, starting in 2000, to train a team of teachers whoin turn would help train other teachers.The president noted the high-technology industries alreadyemploy more people than the auto industry did at its height in the1950s.
Yet, Clinton said rich schools are three times more likelyto have Internet access than poor schools, and white students aremore than twice as likely as black students to have a computer intheir homes.There were reports that the FCC is considering suspending theE-rate program, but an administration official said the White Househad no knowledge of any such move.The telecommunications companies agreed in 1996 to provide thelow-cost service in return for the Federal CommunicationsCommission lowering the local access fees long-distance companiespay to local telephone companies.
The lowered access fees were tosave long-distance companies $2.6 billion over 11 months while thediscount to schools and libraries was to cost $2 billion.Joe Lockhart, a White House spokesman, said the industrypreviously agreed to provide the service.
He maintained there wasno reason to pass along the surcharge costs to customers.Clinton also called for large increases in the budgets of theNational Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Healthfor long-term information and communications research.
He cited thediscovery this week in Japan that subatomic particles calledneutrinos have mass, a key to the workings of the universe.Clinton shared commencement duties with Dr. David Ho, whodiscovered the drug combination treatment to control AIDS.
Hoaccepted MIT's invitation to speak at its commencement lastFebruary but the White House, searching for a venue for Clinton tospeak on the Information revolution, called last month asking to beincluded.After his address, the president had lunch with Sen. EdwardKennedy, D-Mass., and then joined the first lady to mark theopening of the Thoreau Institute.
Don Henley, former drummer forthe band The Eagles, created the institute and the Walden WoodsProject to preserve the legacy of Henry David Thoreau.
XXXX END OF STORY SAN FRANCISCO Some habits are hard to break.
From the late1960s to the early 1990s, the Grateful Dead were on the road almostevery year, playing down-home improvisational rock for twirling,tie-dyed Dead Heads.Three years after the death of Jerry Garcia, his fellow membersof the Grateful Dead are back together as the core of a new band,the Other Ones, that sets out to resurrect and extend the Dead'slegacy.The band made a triumphant hometown debut in San Francisco onThursday night at the Warfield Theater for a sold-out house of2,400 people who arrived with loyal but guarded expectations andleft the concert jubilant.The Other Ones include Hart, Bob Weir on guitar and Phil Lesh onbass, Dead members since the 1960s, and Bruce Hornsby on keyboards,who toured with the Dead in the 1990s.
Mark Karan and Steve Kimockon guitars, Dave Ellis on saxophones and John Molo on drumscomplete the new band.
Drummer Bill Kreutzmann, the other survivingfounder of the Dead, has retired.This summer, the new band is to headline the third FurthurFestival, an annual package tour of Dead-related bands.
It goes tothe Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., on June 29and the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y., on June 30.
Hart saidthe Other Ones had made no plans beyond the summer.For their debut, the Other Ones had two things that the GratefulDead did not: nearly a month of daily rehearsals (including achange of guitarist in the last week) and a set list that waschosen before the band appeared onstage.
But like the Dead, theOther Ones rely on the chemistry of the moment.The Dead brought the security of American roots music country,blues, Appalachian music, rhythm-and-blues, even touches of Latinrhythm to psychedelic wanderings; they made good-timey excursionsout of songs haunted by death and uncertainty.
The two sets by theOther Ones became both a reminder of what the Dead accomplished anda glimpse of new prospects.In more than three hours of music, the Other Ones celebrated theDead with the Dead's own limber, open-ended curiosity, bolstered bythe kind of thorough practice and rejuvenated energy that thelatter-day Dead had lost.The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the followingstories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions ofSaturday, June 6, and thereafter.
If you have any questions, pleasecall Tina May at (206) 448-8355.BABBIT-TROUT (Ovando, Mont.)
Bull trout in four PacificNorthwest states were listed as threatened under the EndangeredSpecies Act Friday, extending federal protection to the fish andthe waters where they live.JUDGE-PANEL (Undated) Sens.
Patty Murray and Slade Gorton name abipartisan panel to screen candidates to succeed U.S. DistrictJudge William L. Dwyer, who is retiring after a decade at thevortex major Northwest social, environmental and political issues.Gorton says, meanwhile, that he believes the GOP-run Senate willfill all four vacancies on the federal bench in Seattle by the timeCongress adjourns at the end of September.
Although of oppositeparties and different political faiths, the state's two senatorsvoice pride at their cooperation on what has been a contentiousissue.
Gorton is waiting for the White House to say it is ready tosend up the name of Barbara Durham to the 9th Circuit before hemoves floor action on long-delayed Clinton appointee WilliamFletcher.FIERZE, Albania The rusted hulk of a ferry, its bilge pumpsspewing water into the emerald green Drinit River and its dieselengine rattling, has become for hundreds of young men the last legon a journey to war.On the upper decks small knots of ethnic Albanians, some of the600,000 Albanians in Germany and Switzerland, squatted andwhispered among themselves.Six bearded Islamic militants with white skullcaps stood nearthe railing with thousand-mile stares that seemed to inhibit theconversation around them.
The milling groups and hushed tones gavethe boat, which shuttles each day the two hours between Koman andFierze, the aura of a troop ship heading into battle.The men have left behind families, jobs, however menial, andpeace to fight for a separate state with the Kosovo Liberation Armyagainst the Serbian military.Many speak German better than they do Albanian and know littleof their homeland other than the idealized visions imparted to themby their refugee parents in cramped apartments in Munich or Zurich.Most are motivated by a romantic fervor that must make up for anappalling lack of military preparation.The location of the training camps in the lawless backlands ofnorthern Albania has become the focus of intense interest.
TheAlbanian government, which since the collapse of its centraladministration last year has little influence here, says the campsdo not exist.None of the men interviewed, even those who said they had beentrained and were about to head over the mountains into Kosovo, werewilling to say where the training took place.The ubiquitous presence of men in combat boots and black fatiguepants in the border towns of Tropoje and Bajram Curri seems tosuggest that the camps are inside Albania along the frontier withSerbia.The counterinsurgency campaign begun by the Serbs in March towipe out the rebels in the central Drenica region in KosovoProvince set off the rush to fight by the young Albanians in thediaspora.Gruesome pictures of some of the 80 people killed in the Serbiansweep in March, mostly women, children and the elderly, were widelydisseminated by the ethnic Albanian leadership.
Exile groups putthe grisly photos on the Internet.A 24-year-old university student, who gave his nom de guerre asGjon and who was born and has lived all his life in Germany, satwith six friends in a small coffee shop in downtown Bajram Curri.He and the other volunteers will cross the border in a day or two.They will travel into an area where the Serbian military has beenpounding villages with heavy artillery for a week, and wherestreams of refugees are fleeing into Albania.Western observers say as many as 40,000 people could bedisplaced from their homes by the attack, which is intended, theysaid, to create a free-fire zone along the length of the borderwith Albania.The Serbs apparently hope that the zone, emptied of civilians,will be a buffer to halt the smuggling of weapons and supplies fromAlbania to the rebels fighting in the province, these officialssaid.The specter of Bosnia, where 200,000 people were killed andhundreds of thousands of Muslims and ethnic Croats expelled fromtheir homes by the Serbs, weighs heavily on the volunteers.
Allsaid Kosovo, where 90 percent of the 2 million people are ethnicAlbanian, would be emptied of all ethnic Albanians if Belgrade ispermitted to continue its military operations.Those who arrive from Europe are confronted with crushingpoverty.
The dusty towns in northern Albania often lack runningwater and regular electricity.
There is often no local authority,other than a warlord and his group of armed henchmen.
Many saidthey were still trying to adjust to the chaos, poverty andisolation.AUSTIN, Texas A sharply divided Texas Supreme Court heldFriday that auto manufacturers can be held liable even if theirsafety designs meet minimum standards for seat belts set by thefederal government.The 5-4 ruling stems from a 1989 auto accident in which an18-year-old man was left paralyzed from the chest down after beingthrown through the sunroof of a car that was not equipped with lapseat belts.Alvarado was a front seat passenger in a 1988 Hyundai Excel thatspun out of control on a rain-slickened roadway and rolled over.The car was equipped with automatic shoulder belts, which engagedwhen the doors closed, but the car did not have lap belts anoption permissible under minimum federal standards at the time,according to court documents.The case represents a rare victory for plaintiffs in theconservative Texas Supreme Court, which is dominated byRepublicans.The main question before the court was whether the NationalTraffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act which sets safety standardsthat vehicle manufacturers must meet precludes consumers fromsuing a manufacturer for damages sustained in a seat restraintsystem that does not include lap belts.She was joined by justices Raul Gonzalez, the only otherDemocrat on the bench, and Republican justices Greg Abbott, JamesBaker and Deborah Hankinson.Lawyers for the auto manufacturer did not return calls from theHouston Chronicle.
But Donna Kane, spokeswoman for Hyundai MotorAmerica, told The Associated Press that lawyers had not yet seenthe opinion and could not comment on it.Brown, the lawyer for Alvarados, said the ruling clears themajor roadblock her client has faced in pursuing the $18 million inactual damages that a trial jury awarded him in 1991.
Hyundaiappealed the jury award, but a San Antonio appeals court haswithheld ruling to allow the Supreme Court time to decide whetherAlvarados should have been barred from seeking damages in the firstplace, Brown said.She added that the Texas Supreme Court decision could leadcourts in other parts of the country to start holding automanufacturers liable for safety restraint systems that have notadequately protected vehicle occupants.
If it didn't have impactbeyond Texas, she said, Hyundai would not have gone to the lengthsit did to fight the case.MOSCOW By the time the first copies of AlexanderSolzhenitsyn's latest book landed at a Moscow bookstore onThursday, its arrival had been heralded far and wide.
Excerpts werepublished in half a dozen newspapers, and there were announcementson radio and television just the kind of fanfare that might beexpected for a work by the great Soviet dissident, Nobel Prizewinner and tireless defender of Russia's battered soul.And yet the phones were ringing all morning on Thursday at theRussian Way bookstore a tidy, tiny haven of classical literatureon a street filled with features of the new Russia: beauty salons,garish cafes, investment banks, currency-exchange booths.Solzhenitsyn's loyal readers, many of whom share his alienationfrom the culture around them, were calling in to ask when theycould come by and pick up their copies.Solzhenitsyn, who rarely gives interviews, has not personallypromoted the book, which is currently available only in Russian.Since his return in November 1994 after a 20-year exile, mainlyin Vermont, Solzhenitsyn has become one of the paradoxes of the newRussia.
Freed from the harsh Soviet censorship that made merepossession of his books a criminal act, Solzhenitsyn more thanany other Russian writer or thinker has had ample opportunity toaddress his public.He was host of a talk show on national television.
He hastraveled the country, lecturing and listening to what people haveto say.
His works have been published not only in select literaryjournals but in Argumenti i Fakty, Russia's most popular newspaper,with a readership of 3.2 million.The new book is a rambling collection of Solzhenitsyn's thoughtsand impressions about what he has seen and heard here over the lastfour years.
The picture he paints is relentlessly grim: a countrybrought to its knees by the avarice and cowardice of its rulingelite and by the West in particular the United States which haswasted no time in taking advantage of Russia's weakness.Many Russians share Solzhenitsyn's bitterness, and according toMedvedev, that may be one of the reasons so few are ready to hearhim out.But for Vera Moseyeva, a retired clerk who remembers the firstbook by Solzhenitsyn that she ever laid her hands on (it was almostin tatters by the time it had been carefully and secretly passed toher), it does not matter what he writes.WASHINGTON Attorney General Janet Reno on Friday removed thelast legal obstacle to the full operation of Oregon's landmarkassisted suicide law, declaring that doctors who use the law toprescribe lethal drugs to terminally-ill patients will not beprosecuted.In her decision Friday, Reno overruled an opinion last Novemberby Thomas Constantine, the administrator of the Drug EnforcementAdministration, an agency of the Justice Department.
The DEA hadwarned that the government would impose severe sanctions on anydoctor who writes a prescription for lethal doses of medicine for apatient.Constantine, who issued his threat after being pressed toconsider the Oregon law by two senior conservative members ofCongress, had said that using drugs for suicide was not alegitimate medical use under the federal drug laws.In reversing that position Friday, Reno said that a JusticeDepartment study concluded that the drug laws were intended toblock illegal trafficking in drugs and did not cover situationslike the Oregon suicide law.It remains unclear whether her ruling will increase the numberof people who seek to use the Oregon law because doctors might nowbe less inhibited to help people end their lives.Dr.
Charles Hoffman, the former president of the state medicalsociety, had complained that Constantine's threat had chilled manydoctors from prescribing lethal drugs to patients eligible underthe law.Only three people are reported to have used the law since itsurvived a series of other legal challenges last fall.The law was written to be used only by Oregon residents in orderto prevent the state from becoming a mecca for people seekingmedical help in ending their lives.
Other states have rejected suchlaws and the next test may come in Michigan, where proponents arepreparing an initiative to be put on the ballot.In her ruling, Reno said there was no evidence that Congressmeant for the DEA to have the novel role of resolving the profoundmoral and ethical questions involved in the issue.
In her statementshe noted that President Clinton remains opposed tophysician-assisted suicide and signed a law prohibiting the use offederal funds for any such procedure.Rep.
Chris Smith, R-N.J., one of Congress' most prominentabortion foes, said Friday he is confident that there will be alegislative attempt to undo Reno's ruling.
Congressional aides saidthat some of the efforts will be similar to those used to deterabortions, like requiring waiting periods or mandatory counseling.The ruling was greeted warmly not only by supporters of thereferendum but by some Oregonians who opposed the measure but feltangered that politicians and agency administrators in Washingtonhad sought to undo the results of the election.The initial referendum was approved by a 51-49 margin in 1994but was held up by legal challenges for three years.Opponents mounted an effort last fall to rescind the originalvote but were rebuffed by a large margin in a second statewidereferendum.
It has been a widely held belief in Oregon that themargin was not so much an indication that people approved ofphysician-assisted suicide but rather a reflection of voters'resentment that the opponents did not accept the will of theelectorate the first time.Constantine was pressed to declare the law inoperative by Sen.Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,and Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., chairman of the House JudiciaryCommittee.
Hatch on Friday criticized Reno's decision in astatement, saying she had misunderstood the federal drug laws.The issue has prompted politicians like Hatch and Hyde, who havelong decried federal intervention and promoted states rights, toargue for Washington to intervene.
The Supreme Court has said thatwhile there is no constitutional right to assisted suicide, statesare free to create their own laws on the issue.Supporters of the law Friday predicted that Reno's ruling willnot greatly increase the number of people in Oregon who will commitsuicide with a doctor's help.
State officials have said they willrelease a report as soon as they have recorded 10 suicides and theyhave not yet done so.
Barbara Combs Lee, who wrote the proposal inthe referendum, said that news reports attributing information tofamily and friends account for only three suicides so far.The state's Death with Dignity Act gives terminally-ill adultsthe right to request a lethal dose of prescription drugs if thepatient is of sound mind and judged by two doctors to have lessthan six months to live.Interpretation: Perhaps the strongest passages in the Biblereferring to homosexuality.
However, advocates of a more lenientview of homosexuality in the church say the condemnation ofmale-male sexual relations must be taken in the context ofLeviticus' emphasis on keeping certain practices to preserve Jewishidentity.
Other laws in Leviticus forbid eating shellfish andwearing mixed fabric.Another group of Christians views religious-based efforts tomake gay people straight as not only impossible, but cruel.
Theyinsist there is no such thing as an ex-gay person.Vaiden has lived on both sides of the issue.
He tried celibacy.He tried marriage.
He tried God.
But his homosexual desirespersisted.
He eventually divorced his wife and for the past 15years has been living with a man in Stone Mountain.
His partner,Lowrey Fleming, whom he met in a Bible study class, helped Vaidenraise his two sons, now adults in their early 20s.Vaiden says he is comfortable with his sexual orientation today.But many Christians remain certain that practicing homosexuality isa sin.
The issue has split the Christian community into two camps.Founded in 1976, Exodus has 88 chapters in the United States andnine international chapters in places as far apart as Singapore andthe United Kingdom.Christians who embrace their gayness also cite Scripture.
Andtheir contention that homosexuality isn't something that can bechanged has in recent years been reinforced by many in thescientific and psychological communities.Gays and ex-gays differ on basic assumptions abouthomosexuality.
Most Christians who believe God can change aperson's sexual orientation think that homosexuality is not inborn,but caused by a person's environment.
They often cite an inadequaterelationship between children and parents as the spark forhomosexuality.Many gay Christians who laim they have been healed areunwilling to say they no longer are attracted to members of thesame sex.
They describe healing as a process, not an overnightchange.
Temptation remains.Richard Morton is a member of Living Stones, an Atlanta-basedministry affiliated with Exodus International.
Morton, 40, aminister's son from Indiana, joined Living Stones after hismarriage failed because of his homosexuality.
He lost his wife andmale lover in the same year.Morton said Living Stones uses a tough-love approach.
Membersare required to meet each week, stay in constant touch with asponsor, and are forbidden to buy pornography.Critics of the ex-gay movement believe Morton's quest willultimately fail.
They scoff at the idea that homosexuality can beexplained by a deficient relationship between a child and a parent.Vaiden, for example, said he got along great with his father andmother.
Both supported him when he left his wife, although theydidn't understand his decision.Yet many Christians who believe that God can deliver people fromhomosexuality think the argument that people are born gay isirrelevant.Dallas points out that studies suggesting biological roots forhomosexuality are small in sample size and far from proven, a pointHaldeman concedes.Of much greater importance, Dallas adds, is the fact thatChristians who grapple with homosexual desires must still obeyScripture, which forbids homosexuality.Vaiden has long since given up trying to change his sexualorientation.
That's not to say he didn't struggle to remain withhis wife and attempt to be straight.Vaiden thought he could cure his homosexuality through prayerand Scripture.
But such efforts proved futile.
He tried to balancehis sexual desires with his need to take care of his wife andfamily.It all became too much.
Vaiden divorced.
A year later he andFleming began living together, a partnership that has lasted for 15years.Despite Asian tremors, stock market jitters and fears thatAmerica is running out of workers, the economy is still booming.
InMay, the Labor Department reported on Friday, employers addednearly 300,000 new jobs, unemployment held steady at an almostunbelievably low 4.3 percent the lowest rate in 28 years andpay continued to rise.Investors focused on the optimistic side, reasoning that such ashow of economic strength bodes well for corporate profits.
Thestock market, which had been faltering lately, surged in a powerfulrally that pushed the Dow Jones average up nearly 2 percent, itsbest gain in four months.The May jobs figures are only the latest evidence that theeconomy remains far more robust than most experts expected.Spending on everything from new homes and cars to businessequipment has been soaring in recent weeks.Indeed, the surge in hiring surprised economists who wereexpecting the unemployment rate to tick up in May and payrolls toonly rise modestly.
What's more, the Labor Department reported thatthe job market was stronger in March and April than previouslyreported.The best labor market since the go-go 1960s is a boon for mostAmericans who are now enjoying signing bonuses, more frequentraises and, not least, the luxury of choice.
The quit rate thebest measure of how confident workers are that they trade their oldjob for a better one has been hovering close its highest levelsince the beginning the economic expansion seven years ago.Although a tight labor market also increases the possibilitythat the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to cool theeconomy down, wage inflation is hardly surging.
Hourly earnings arenow 4.3 percent above their year-ago level.
After rising 5 cents inApril, earnings edged up another 4 cents to $12.73.The sole weak spot in the job market is in industry.
Asia'sproblems have been hitting American exporters hard since thebeginning of the year, contributing to a big buildup in inventoriesand production cutbacks.As a result, manufacturers have started to reign in headcounts.Factory payrolls, which grew by more than more than 300,000 in pasttwo years, shrank for the second month in a row by 26,000.Indeed, all of the hiring 332,000 jobs last month was by thedominant service sector which includes everything from Wall Streetand shopping malls to trucking and management consulting firms.What's fueling the demand for workers, including, increasingly,the young, inexperienced, and least educated, isn't much of amystery: American businesses and households are on a spending spreethat shows few signs of abating and promises to keep the job markettight for the foreseeable future.
Consumers are spending morefreely than ever, as jammed parking lots at the nation's malls andthe latest reports from merchants confirm.Just this week, Detroit automakers reported May was their bestsales month in a dozen years.
On Thursday, big retailers reported a7.1 percent in May sales following a 10.2 percent gain in April,the best monthly increase in 10 years.Americans are also buying houses.
April home sales were thestrongest in history.
And furniture, hardware, and other items forthe family home are moving briskly.
The 9,000-job drop inconstruction in May likely reflects the past few months of unusualweather patterns and comes after builders hired 204,000 workersbetween October and April.There's no sign that households are tapped out.
Partly becauseof that hot job market, household income is swelling at a ratethat's highly unusual by historical standards, nearly 5 percent ayear.
With inflation running close to 1 percent, if that, `a dollaris worth a dollar' these days.The other spur to spending is coming from the stock market,which has quadrupled in value over the last eight years.
Half ofall Americans have some stake in the market, and they're the oneswith most of the disposable income.
An economic rule of thumb holdsthat consumers spend approximately 3 percent of their wealth gains.That rule seems to be holding now.
The personal savings rate hasdeclined from 6.5 percent to 3.5 percent in the past five years;that's an indirect measure of the wealth effect $200-plus billionin extra spending.Businesses are also spending like there's no tomorrow.
Spendingon new equipment and structures has been booming almost since thebeginning of the expansion and shows no signs of slowing.One reason for all the investment is that high stock prices andlow interest rates make it more affordable.. Equipment orderssuggest that investment spending, while it may have slowed a tadfrom its 27 percent annual rate in the first quarter, is stillrising at a double digit rate.But while there's no evidence yet that domestic demand isslowing, some drags on growth are already visible.
The tradedeficit which shaved 1.5 percentage points off the economicgrowth rate in the first quarter is expected to widen from theafter effects of the Asia crisis, which has diminished demand forAmerican products in Asia and increased the amount of Asian-madegoods bound for the United States.The glowing newlyweds looked as if they had just stepped out ofa Hallmark greeting card.Only a week earlier they were joined in a church.
Now they werebasking in each other's presence, flipping through their weddingalbum and making plans for their honeymoon in Greece.
It was atypical snapshot of post-wedding bliss except for one unusualdetail:Michael Calvert and Bryan Keever were joined during a commitmentceremony in the Christ Covenant Metropolitan Community Church neardowntown Decatur, Georgia.
The MCC is a congregation founded by andfor homosexuals.
Calvert, an MCC deacon, could not envisionworshipping or marrying anywhere else.Eleven o'clock Sunday morning may be the most segregated hour inAmerica, but a new kind of church division is now taking place agrowing separation between the straight and homosexual religiouscommunities.
Gays and lesbians in metro Atlanta, no longer willingto wait for mainstream churches to embrace them, have in recentyears created their own religious groups.The Southern Voice, a weekly catering mostly to the city's gaycommunity, lists at least 40 places of worship in the Atlanta areathat welcome gays and lesbians.
A few are part of mainstreamdenominations, defiantly ignoring church doctrine.
But most werespecifically created for homosexuals.If mainline churches continue to reject the inclusion ofhomosexuals, leaders of gay places of worship say, theircongregations will prosper.
According to MCC officials, they haveone of the fastest-growing Christian denominations in the world.Since its founding in Los Angeles in 1968, MCC has grown to about300 churches in 17 countries.
MCC's worldwide membership, officialsreport, is now at 32,000.The Metropolitan Community Church was founded by Troy Perry, aminister defrocked by his Pentecostal church for homosexuality.After recovering from a suicide attempt, Perry said he received acall from God to start a church that affirmed gays and all otheroutcasts.Still, don't expect any homosexual megachurches in Atlanta orelsewhere.
Most gay places of worship have comparatively smallmemberships.
The MCC congregation that Calvert and Keever attendhas about 220 members.
The Unity Fellowship Church, which ispredominantly black and open to gays, has about 25 members.Congregation Bet Haverim has about 165 members.Ironically, though many homosexuals feel uncomfortable inmainstream places of worship, they insist on retaining thetrappings of such traditional faith communities.The Metropolitan Community Church in Decatur, for example, looksas if it could have been lifted from a Norman Rockwell painting:white steeple, stained-glass windows and an orange juice stand outfront.
The MCC worship style includes the traditional sacraments ofbaptism and Communion.When it comes to their theology on sexuality, though, homosexualplaces of worship differ sharply from the mainstream.
MCC teachesthat biblical passages condemning homosexuality have beenmisinterpreted.
The sin of Sodom, for example, was inhospitality,not homosexuality, the denomination holds.The Rev.
Glenna Shepherd, the MCC pastor who conducted theCalvert-Keever commitment ceremony, said she thinks that mostchurches will accept homosexuals in the future.Shepherd, a lesbian, said mainstream churches' opposition tosame-sex marriages places gays who want to be faithful to onepartner in a no-win situation.Calvert, however, said his allegiance to MCC will last.
It iswhere he says he found God and love.In the spring of 1990, the Rev.
Mike Cordle and his wife walkedpast St. Mark United Methodist Church in Atlanta on their way tosee a play at the Fox Theatre.Cordle was an up-and-comer in the North Georgia Conference ofthe United Methodist Church senior pastor at St. Andrew UnitedMethodist Church in Cobb County, where the 1,200 members hadoverpledged the annual budget and were planning a new building toaccommodate their rapid growth.Perhaps no church in Georgia and few in the United States has seen a more dramatic turnaround because of welcoming gays andlesbians than the old Gothic church on Peachtree Street.Looking back, Cordle sees the hand of providence in the timingof his first Sunday at the church.
After preaching to about 90 ofits 200 mostly elderly members, he and his family stepped outsideto see a parade flowing down Peachtree Street.
He joked that thecity had staged it to welcome him.
It was his first Gay Prideparade.During the next year, Cordle worked hard and picked up eight newmembers, but because of difficulty meeting denominationalobligations and utility bills, the congregation froze his salary.And on the first anniversary of his arrival at the church, Cordleand his family went outside to watch the Gay Pride parade again.To settle the dispute, Cordle took the idea to the church laycouncil, thinking surely the members would reject the proposal.They didn't.On his second anniversary at the church, when the Gay Prideparade came by St. Mark, Cordle, his wife and several members ofthe church passed out 50,000 donated leaflets about the church,along with cups of water, to participants.The next Sunday, about half a dozen curious gays and lesbianscame to services.
They told others about their experience, and morepeople came.The church began structuring ministries to meet the needs of itsnew members: AIDS-related services, the Genesis group for menstruggling with their sexual orientation, the Rainbow Sunday SchoolClass.And gay and lesbian members began to become integrated intoother groups and classes, to volunteer throughout the church'sprogram, and to bring more friends.A few of the older members left, but many more new membersjoined.
Some were young heterosexuals who wanted their children tobe part of a diverse community.In March, the church took in its 1,000th member.
Its annualbudget is more than $500,000 five times as much as when Cordlebecame minister.
The congregation has paid off all but $17,000 ofthe $1 million cost of renovating the elegant old sanctuary.Attendance averages more than 800 each Sunday in two services.A few openly gay and lesbian candidates for the ministry havefound churches willing to defy popular practice.
Some were ordainedbefore they discovered their homosexuality.
But for most gaywould-be clergy, the position of the churches leaves severalchoices hide their sexuality, accept a lifetime of celibacy,transfer to the Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan CommunityChurches or another gay-friendly body, or wait for a change indenominational policy.Here is a look at four gay metro Atlantans, two who long forordination and two who have succeeded.Sitting at a wrought-iron table in the courtyard of TrinityPresbyterian Church on a sunny February day, Chris Glaser lookeddejected.
Glaser, who is openly gay, had just watched thePresbytery of Greater Atlanta vote down a proposal that would havebrought him closer to what he believes is his lifelong calling the Christian ministry.He moved to Atlanta in May 1993, when his partner, Mark King,took a job at AID Atlanta.
The two joined Ormewood ParkPresbyterian Church and had their relationship blessed in aceremony performed by the church's former minister.
They remainactive church members, but Glaser said he identifies himself lessstrongly as a Presbyterian than in the past.Ever since his teen years, Harry Knox, 37, has wanted to be aUnited Methodist minister.
As a student at Emory University'sCandler School of Theology, he served as pastor of a tiny churchwhere two families had gay sons.
Through the process of counselingthem, he says, he realized he could not be an effective ministerunless he came to terms with his own sexuality.Copeland grew up in Snyder Memorial Baptist Church inFayetteville, N.C., and felt called to the ministry from age 16.
Byhis senior year at Wake Forest University, he was state presidentof the Baptist Student Union, the Southern Baptist Convention'scollege campus ministry.
By that year he also knew he was gay.He enrolled in Andover Newton Theological School inMassachusetts, affiliated with the American Baptist Churches U.S.A.and the United Church of Christ, but left because he felt compelledto choose between being a minister and being gay.After a year working in campus ministry, he entered the law andtheology program at Emory University(Ga.) intending to work insocial justice.
In Atlanta, he joined Oakhurst Baptist Church, acongregation affiliated with both the American Baptist Churches andthe Southern Baptist Convention.
Two years later, he felt he couldno longer deny the call he felt to be a minister.Kanour, 44, serves as assistant to the rector at St.Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in DeKalb County.
In August 1997,when she and her partner of three years were introduced, thecongregation gave them a standing ovation.A native of Virginia, she was raised a Southern Baptist andlater became a Roman Catholic.
She graduated from Oregon StateUniversity, spent four years in the Marine Corps and then earned adivinity degree from Yale University.When her father died soon after she left the convent, shereturned home to Norfolk and found work as parish administrator atGood Shepherd Episcopal Church.
There, she decided she wanted to beordained a priest.Since she was living in Atlanta three years later when shecompleted preparation, Atlanta's Bishop Frank K. Allan ordained herin 1991 on behalf of the bishop of southern Virginia.Kanour spent a year in clinical pastoral education at NorthsideHospital, worked four years as a chaplain at Grady MemorialHospital's hospice, and became interim vicar at Emmaus House, asouth AtlantaWhen Allan accepted her official transfer to the diocese lastyear so that she could serve in a parish, Kanour became the firstopenly gay person received for official clergy status in thediocese.At St. Bartholomew's, a church known for its wide range ofcommunity ministries, she is assistant to the rector for missionsand evangelism.
She finds the ministry exhilarating.McCaysville, Ga.--Hmmm.
The question fascinates: Why do we feelthe need to garden in the mountains when nature does such a goodjob without our help?Over and over again, I've seen them in places throughout theworld plantings around dwellings surrounded by incomparablescenery.In the highlands of Puerto Rico, where stunning views of sea andvalleys and mountains take your breath away, where the most lushvegetation and colorful flowers thrive on their own, gardens stillgrow around houses everywhere.On the Isle of Wight, most residents cannot resist planting hydrangeas are particularly popular, with lovely fall leaf color even though the woods and water can thrill forever.On Cape Ann, Mass., too, and in Santa Fe, N.M., where naturalbeauty awes and inspires, where coastal waters and arid delightsproliferate like sea grasses and sagebrush, people must put theirown stuff in the ground.Up here in the mountains, there's a whole lot of stamping goingon.Undeniably enchanting, the hazy blue ridges and quilted shadesof green beckon.
In the woods, you get lost in the delight of moreplant species than are in some countries.
Who can dispute orresist the charms of sweet-For my part, I'm doing all I can as fast as I can to stamp myland immediately around the cabin.Big Momma's garden, so named because it embraces many of theplants my mother's mother so loved rose of Sharon, butterflybush, zinnia, sweet olive continues to thicken with the help offriends.
Evelyn Davenport provided bee balm and foxglove.
LauraAbernathy shared a red rose and some wintergreen, while GregCrawford provided Big Momma an abelia.
So far, these newcomers seemnot to mind giving up their comfortable homes for my brutally newand rocky garden.Mickey Galloway gave me a shopping visit to his woods, where Idug as many hemlocks and white pines as my car would haul (I need atruck).
The little trees promise to grow as big and fine as theirolder siblings.And the plantings continue.
In some ways, they reflect oureffort to embrace and complement and extend nature's beauty, tobring it right up to our own doors.
To bring it home.
And, yes, toshow ownership and exert control of our spaces, too.Sometimes we do this with plants directly out of the verdantlandscape, sometimes with plants straight from the nursery (orfriends' gardens).
Regardless, each plant integrates us withnature.
Each puts a green stamp on the plot that holds our home.Ginnie Hart, a 52-year-old preacher's kid, former Bibletranslator and ex-wife of an evangelical missionary, has spent muchof her life studying or teaching the Scriptures.Today, as an openly lesbian United Methodist, Hart teaches Bibleclasses, attended mostly by gays and lesbians, that focus on howshe believes the Bible has been misused against homosexuals.Q: What is your position on the ordination of sexually activehomosexuals and the blessing of same-sex unions?A: I do not believe there is any reason in Scripture, based onhomosexuality alone, to deny ordination.
I would want to knowwhether a person, gay or straight, is abusive or unfaithful.
Thoseare the larger questions.And when people want to be committed to each other and make thata public statement, I think the church ought to support them.
Ibelieve one of the problems in the gay community is that we are notable to make our commitments publicly or openly.
It's real easy toget out of a relationship few people know you're in.A: It's the age-old problem of separating the body from the soulor spirit.
Historically, we've had that dichotomy in the church.All this is a part of who I am.
My sexuality, my spirituality,everything about me is meant to be integrated.
To say that it's OKto be gay as long as you don't `do it' is like saying it's OK to behungry but don't eat.
It's preposterous.A: If we can't find a place in the church where we can find thename and learn what it means to be homosexual that sexually,emotionally and spiritually I am going to be bonded more closely towomen than to men where are we going to find it?
Where are wegoing to be nurtured and supported?
If the church is not going tobe a place where we can learn to be soulful and holy and whole,where are we going to learn that?Q: The United Methodist Church and some other denominations makea distinction between civil rights and the role in the church.
Theycall for equal employment rights for gays and lesbians and yet willnot ordain them or bless their unions in the church.
Do you see anyconflict in these positions?A: What we've seen is an evolution in the church's understandingof civil rights.
When you get to the point when you can say theydeserve civil rights why wouldn't you ordain them?A: If you interpret Scripture literally take the text and whatit says ... it probably means you have a conclusion about anysubject.
`Women shouldn't preach.'
You can go to Scripture and finda verse to support it.
`Homosexuality is an abomination.'
It'seasy.
You don't have to do a lot of study.
The other way tointerpret Scripture and to me the only way is to do ithistorically and critically.
We have to know what was going onhistorically and culturally to know what the author meant and whatthe first audience heard.
You find a nugget of truth and apply ittoday.A: My own experience is that I had every reason in the world notto be gay.
I was a preacher's kid.
I was a missionary overseas and,with my husband, was a stateside missionary supported by friendsand churches.
I knew if those people knew what I was strugglingwith, then it would devastate them and devastate our ministry.
Iwas married and had two beautiful children.
...
But my ownexperience tells me this is who I am.
You get to the point whereyour only chance at freedom is letting it all go.
Until I stoppedfighting, I could not be whole.Even though the church was not always there for me, God wasalways there for me.
It's one reason it's been important for me tostay in the church and try to educate people.Q: What is your position on the ordination of sexually activehomosexuals and the blessing of same-sex unions?A: My personal position and that of the church is that thepractice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching.Sometimes the church is criticized for being closed to homosexuals.That's not the case at all, but there's a careful distinctionbetween orientation and practice.Q: So the church essentially says to homosexuals that they haveto change or remain celibate?Q: To join the United Methodist Church, a person pledges to tryto live by its teachings.
Some have suggested that practicinghomosexuals not even be admitted to membership.
Would you go thatfar?A: While I don't think we would go on any witch hunt or anythinglike that, we would hope that people understood the church'sposition and were willing to be loyal to the church.A: I think the church by its nature is to be open to all personsand to offer ministry, to offer guidance and support, but thechurch has the right to expect certain standards of its ministersand its members.Q: The United Methodist Church and some other denominations callfor equal employment rights for gays and lesbians, and yet will notordain them or bless their unions in the church.
Do you see anyconflict inA: The church has the right to expect a different standard, or ahigher standard, of its members.
While the church would stand forbasic civil and human rights, the church retains for itself theright to say what basic membership standards and ordinationstandards are.A: The scriptural basis, I think, is very clear.
All thereferences to homosexuality in the Old and New Testaments arenegative.
Nowhere is the practice of homosexuality commended.
Onthe other side, the positive passages begin even with the story ofcreation when God created male and female and blessed their union.The Old and New Testaments are full of affirmations of marriagebetween a man and woman.
So, that could be called biblicaltheology.
...We also talk about tradition, how the Scripture has beeninterpreted in the broad sweep of Christian history.
That's been apretty universal understanding of God's will, that human sexualityis God's gift, but it's to be expressed within the bounds ofmarriage between a man and a woman.
Then there's what's callednatural theology as well, that which is in keeping with nature.Personally, from the reading I've done, though I'm not a scientist,certain practices of homosexuality, particularly malehomosexuality, are a violation of the human anatomy and very highrisk.
Again that would be confirmed in Paul's statement in Romanswhen he calls homosexuality unnatural.
...The global understanding of this matter, I would say, isoverwhelmingly geared to the church's traditional position.
Some ofthe growing churches in Asia and Africa are just amazed that wespend this much energy on an issue they think is clearly forbiddenin the Christian tradition.Q: Have you had friends or family members who are homosexual?And if so, how did they affect your attitude toward homosexuality?A: Yes.
... Their practice or disagreement with the church'sposition does not change how I feel about them.
Nor does my love ofthem change my feeling that the church's position is legitimate andnot only scriptural, but loving.
I think all of us can agree thatall persons are of sacred worth, but not all practices arecompatible with Christian teaching.For United Methodists, the verdict in the church trial of theRev.
Jimmy Creech was almost as divisive as the O.J.
Simpsonverdict was for the nation.Across Methodism, the Creech trial brought to a head simmeringdebates about homosexuality.
Creech, a pastor in the country'ssecond-largest Protestant denomination, was acquitted in March ofviolating church law by blessing the union of two lesbians at hisOmaha, Neb., church.
Eight of the 13-member, all-clergy jury foundhim guilty, one short of the nine required for conviction.More than 100 ministers who supported Creech signed a statementvowing to continue to bless same-sex unions, while those outragedat the verdict called for a special session of the denomination'sGeneral Conference to deal with the aftermath.After his bishop did not reappoint him to his Omaha church,Creech announced that he will take a leave of absence from theministry and move to North Carolina.
His last sermon in the Omahapulpit will be today.The Methodists are just one group of many in Christendomstruggling with questions of same-sex relationships.Presbyterians, Lutherans, Episcopalians, Catholics, Baptists andmembers of the United Church of Christ have their own skirmishes.The votes and charges at the national level have filtered down intometro Atlanta's pews and pulpits, in some cases causing divisionwithin churches and defection from denominations.On a practical level, the great church debates center on twoquestions: Should there be a rite for same-sex unions?
And, shouldsexually active gay men and lesbian women be ordained to churchoffice?But on a theological level, what is at stake may be much greaterthan a ceremony or a clerical position.
Some leaders on both sidesof the line see themselves in a battle for the soul of the church.The names of two movements within United Methodism describe theattitudes of the two factions toward the church.
ReconcilingCongregations are those who intentionally include gays andlesbians, focusing on the need to bring in and nurture everyone asa member of God's family.
Transforming Congregations are those whobelieve homosexuals can be changed in their orientation throughGod's healing powers, or can find the courage to live a life ofcelibacy in order to conform to the church's teaching.While both sides say they see sexual expression ideally as anexpression of commitment and love, in general those who wouldprohibit the blessing of same-sex unions or the ordination ofsexually active homosexuals see sex as tied to procreation andGod's plan of creation.A statement by the Alliance of Baptists, a moderate group ofSouthern and American Baptists, is echoed in reports by otherdenominations, including the United Methodist Church and thePresbyterian Church (U.S.A.).
The statement says:With more bishops, priests and ministers willing to defy theirdenominations by blessing same-sex unions and ordaininghomosexuals, and more legislative action pending before severalbodies, there is no end in view.NEW YORK Alfred Kazin, author, critic, teacher and New Yorkintellectual, died Friday at his home on the Upper West Side ofManhattan on his 83rd birthday.For more than 50 years Kazin wrote prolifically about two greatsubjects: American literature and himself.
His territory was theBrownsville section of Brooklyn, where he grew up; the streets ofthe city, which he restlessly walked as if Herman Melville, EdgarAllan Poe and Walt Whitman were beside him, and the landscape ofAmerican literature, which he criticized with passionate intensity.As a critic, Kazin said writers should be understood in relationto their culture.
Unlike the New Critics, he did not engage inminute textual analyses, and he paid less attention to style andform than to the relationship of a literary work to its time.WASHINGTON When Kay Bailey Hutchison first ran for the Senate,she depended on contributions from tobacco interests to help fillher campaign coffers.But more recently, the Texas Republican decided to kick thehabit, joining an increasing number of lawmakers who are trying todistance themselves from an unpopular industry.Hutchison said she became miffed at the tobacco companies aftertheir executives testified before Congress that they didn't believetheir product was addictive and they weren't trying to coerce youngpeople into smoking.Since 1995, the senator has not accepted tobacco contributionsand returned several donations that came anyway, according to ananalysis of Federal Election Commission campaign reports by theCenter for Responsive Politics.In the previous two years, Hutchison took more than $55,000 fromtobacco companies and their executives to help pay for twoexpensive Senate campaigns.
She first ran in 1993 in a specialelection to fill the seat vacated by Lloyd Bentsen and later againin 1994 for the regular six-year term.Gramm spokesman Larry Neal suggested that shunning tobaccocontributions was largely a public relations ploy and that thesenator considered it sufficient that he disclose the sources ofhis contributions.He has also been one of the most vocal opponents of theanti-smoking legislation now being considered by the Senate.
Themeasure would substantially increase the price of cigarettes andgive the federal government broad authority to regulate tobaccoproducts.However, debate has slowed considerably because of moves byGramm and others to attach unrelated amendments, such aseliminating the tax burden on married couples and funding anti-drugefforts.Even though she has been angered at the tobacco companies'attitudes, Hutchison has not embraced the anti-smoking measurebefore the Senate, in part, because it is opposed by the industry.The senator said she believes that proposed restrictions ontobacco advertising included in the original bill will never cometo pass because the industry will not voluntarily comply with theban.Despite increasing reluctance by some lawmakers to acceptdonations, the big tobacco companies have continued to pour largeamounts into the political system.Common Cause president Ann McBride said that the tobaccoindustry can still wield influence over lawmakers through softmoney contributions.
And she questioned whether lawmakers coulddistance themselves from the companies unless they condemned theirparties' acceptance of the money.Even though tobacco is not grown in Texas, 16 of the state's30-member House delegation received a total of $57,500 in tobaccocontributions in 1997 and the first few months of 1998, accordingto the Center for Responsive Politics analysis.House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, a vocal critic of theanti-tobacco legislation being considered by the Senate, was thelargest recipient among state lawmakers at $11,000.Green said he accepts money from large tobacco companies thathave non-tobacco related subsidiaries that employ workers in hisdistrict.
Green cited RJR Nabisco, which has a local plant thatmakes crackers, and Phillip Morris that runs a Maxwell House coffeeoperation in Houston.Republican Rep. Kevin Brady of The Woodlands hasn't decidedwhere he stands on the anti-smoking legislation, but he won't taketobacco money.Charles Black, a tobacco industry lobbyist and a top adviser inGramm's recent unsuccessful presidential bid, said that he hasnoted that more politicians have been refusing tobacco money inrecent years.Alfred Kazin was born on June 5, 1915, the son of Charles Kazin,a house painter, and the former Gita Fagelman, a dressmaker, bothof whom had emigrated as youths from czarist Russia.
From hischildhood in Brownsville, Kazin and his sister, Pearl, were imbuedwith the immigrant, working-class values that were to sustain asociety through the Great Depression.His entry into the world of letters began almost by accident.Like so many of the new generation of young intellectuals in NewYork City, sons and daughters of immigrants for the most part,Kazin attended City College, honing his literary sensibilities andopinions from the many newspapers and magazines that were publishedin the city through the Depression.Kazin spent most of the next 60 years writing.
He earned hisbachelor's degree in 1935 from City College and his master's degreein English three years later.
He began writing reviews and essayfor other magazines and took a strong interest in the new writingof the time.
In 1937, Carl Van Doren, then a professor at ColumbiaUniversity, suggested that he undertake a book-length study ofmodern American literature.But the memoir established Kazin as one of the country's leadingpostwar voices and commanded a growing readership drawn to itsevocative prose:In between publication dates, Kazin earned his living writingreviews and essays for newspapers and magazines like AmericanMercury, Partisan Review, The New Yorker and Harper's Magazine.
Hewas literary editor of The New Republic and an associate editor ofFortune.
He also wrote countless introductions to reprint editionsof classic and more contemporary works.Kazin was also a guest professor at universities in the UnitedStates and abroad.
He taught at Harvard, Smith, Notre Dame,Berkeley, Cambridge, Cologne and the University of Puerto Rico, toname only a few.
He later held distinguished professorships at theState University of New York at Stony Brook, and the CityUniversity of New York, at Hunter College and the Graduate Center.His colleagues included Irving Howe and Irving Kristol, NormanPodhoretz, Lionel and Diana Trilling, William Barrett, WilliamPhillips, Mary McCarthy, Sidney Hook and Harold Rosenberg.
Many ofthe friendships did not survive professional jealousies and therise of neoconservatism.His love affair with literature carried him through a sometimesstormy private life that included four marriages.
His first was toNatasha Dohn, also the daughter of Russian immigrants.
The marriageended in divorce, and he married Caroline Bookman, with whom he hada son, Michael.
That marriage lasted three years, and in 1952, hewed Ann Birstein, a novelist, with whom he had a daughter,Cathrael.
He married Judith Dunford, also a writer, in 1983.He is survived by his wife; a son, Michael of Chevy Chase, Md.
;a daughter, Cathrael Kazin of Jerusalem; two stepsons, JonathanDunford of Paris and Nathaniel Dunford of New York; a stepdaughter,Hilary Shanahan of New York; a sister, Pearl Bell of Boston; twograndchildren and five stepgrandchildren .The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for useby clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Saturday,June 6.
If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt on theStar's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.His acceptance speech, which began with a nostalgic snap-shop ofhis immigrant family tree, took on the media as much as it did hiswould-be opponent.He criticized editorial writers and national newspapers forfailing to understand his work and defended his fund-raising as astrategy designed to make sure he has the means to take his messagedirectly to the people.As of April, D'Amato, chairman of the powerful Senate BankingCommittee, had raised $17 million and had $10.8 million on hand tospend, dwarfing the sums collected by the three Democrats vying fortheir party's nod to run against the 18-year incumbent.The Democratic Party, however, has made it clear that D'Amato istheir primary target in the upcoming races in New York.
Hispotential opponents are former vice presidential candidate and talkshow host Geraldine Ferraro; U.S. Rep. Charles Schumer; and NewYork City Public Advocate Mark Green.But D'Amato, who is trailing in polls and painted himself as thebeleaguered underdog on Friday, did say he intends to campaignaggressively.One of the biggest groups the senator is tackling this year arethe teachers, who wield ample political muscle and campaign cash.D'Amato, who has called for merit pay for good teachers and anend to automatic tenure, reiterated his education reform goals onFriday.The Solomon Islands, a tiny country in the Pacific with apopulation of 400,000, has no army and a police force of barely athousand including traffic cops.
But last summer the governmentpurchased enough equipment to outfit a small combat unit includingassault rifles, machine guns, helmets, boots and two smallairplanes from a U.S. company.At the Pentagon and the U.S. Customs Service, officialsexpressed misgivings about the sale, fearing that the weapons andthe gear were destined for rebels in nearby Papau, New Guinea.Others argued that it would be better for the Solomon Islands toinvest in health and education.
Australia and New Zealand alsoopposed the deal, believing it was irresponsible to be bringingmore weapons into the region.But the State Department accepted that the arms were necessaryfor the police and issued the necessary licenses.
Since then, anewly elected government in the Solomon Islands, suspicious aboutthe motives for the arms deal, has launched an investigation andtried to cancel it.While the sale to the Solomon Islands is military peanuts only$3.4 million it offers a window into the workings of the smallarms trade which has equipped terrorist organizations and civilwars from Afghanistan to Rwanda.
Within the U.S. government,arguments that such sales might fuel an ethnic conflict, or go to agovernment with a poor human rights record, are routinely drownedout by arguments that the deal will be good for U.S. business andimprove relations with other countries, U. S. officials say.Even as the end of the Cold War has brought a decline ingovernment sales of tanks and jet fighters, the private militarytrade is booming.
From annual sales of between $2 billion to $3billion during most of the Cold War, shipments have climbed to morethan $25 billion in 1996, government records show.But it is the so-called small arms assault rifles, pistols,mortars that are fueling the regional, ethnic and nationalistwars.The Clinton administration has pushed for international treatiesto curb the illegal trade in firearms, because these generally endup in the hands of street criminals, organized crime syndicates, ororganizations Washington considers terrorist, like the Tamil Tigersin Sri Lanka.But there is a growing movement by groups like the BritishAmerican Security Information Council and the InternationalCommittee of the Red Cross as well as governments like Norway andBelgium to put controls on the legal arms trade.The Solomon Islands deal would likely have remained a secret hadit not been for the change of government there last August, justweeks after the prior government had ordered the weapons.The new government has launched an investigation aimed in partat learning more about the U.S. company that sold the weapons,Century Arms.The company is one of the largest arms traders in the UnitedStates but its activities are shrouded in secrecy.
The State andCommerce departments, as well as the Customs Service, all declinedto provide any information about the licenses the company hasreceived for arms dealings.
The company has offices in St.
Albans,Vt., and Boca Raton, Fla. Calls to both of these offices asking forcomment on the Solomon Islands sale were not returned.OLATHE, Kan. An object found at the regional air trafficcontrol center in Olathe on Wednesday was a personal joke between acontractor's employees and was not meant to resemble a bomb,authorities said Thursday.Lanza said there was no evidence that the two intended to makethe quart-sized water bottle filled with a brownish-yellow fluidresemble a bomb.The object sent a scare through the Kansas City Air RouteTraffic Control Center at 9:35 a.m. Wednesday one of the center'sbusiest times.Its discovery forced controllers to reroute about 200 airplanesand temporarily ground 41 flights at more than 600 airports in thearea, including Kansas City International and Lambert-St. LouisInternational.The Olathe Fire Department took the object a clear plasticwater bottle with a disposable cup on the top and a cigarettesticking out like a fuse to its explosives range and drew asample of the liquid.Lanza declined to release the name of the contractor or theemployees involved.
He also would not discuss the nature of thejoke.He said the individuals told the FBI that they inadvertentlyleft the object in the men's room.
It was discovered within a fewhours.Lanza said the FBI interviewed those involved Wednesday eveningand Thursday morning for several hours before taking theinformation to the U.S. attorney's office, which determined nocharges would be filed.OK, folks, here it comes the vehicle you've been waiting forsince Dodge introduced the new Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out thenew F-150 in 1996.General Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, itwas worth the wait.Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling intoshowrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle sincethe current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988.For 1999, the truck takes the name Silverado, which in the pastwas the designation for an uplevel trim package on the Chevypickups.The GMC version, which will show up in the fall, has a new name,too: the Sierra.To answer the big question first: No, there are no radicalstyling changes, such as those on the Ram and F-150.These trucks look different, make no mistake about that.
Butthey still look like General Motors full-size pickups; they're justa bit rounder and have some updated trim, such as new headlights,grilles and bumpers.Unlike the Ram and F-150, the big differences aren't in style,they're in substance.
These trucks are stronger, faster, bigger,roomier, and more high-tech than before and they outclass thecompetition in all of those areas.Take the back seat in the extended-cab models.
It's a real seat,with enough leg and knee room even for big folks.
And the thirddoor, which comes on the passenger side, is larger than before (andlarger than those in the Dodge and Ford), which makes it easier toget in and out.The new GM pickups' V-8 engines are more powerful than thecompetitions', too, with no penalty in fuel economy.
In fact, gasmileage exceeds that of the Ram and matches or exceeds that of theF-150 in almost all cases.Braking is vastly improved over the past C/K model and thecompetition.
The GM trucks stop 30 to 50 feet sooner than thecurrent models from 80 mph, thanks to large, four-wheel disc brakesand a standard, four-wheel antilock system an exclusive featurefor this vehicle class.The body is stronger than before, cutting down significantly onsqueaks and rattles, and providing better occupant protection.
Theframe is 23 percent stiffer than that of the current model,creating a strong foundation, and the frame is welded together,rather than riveted, to add to that strength.Reliability should be dramatically improved, too.
The electricalwiring, for instance, has five splices down from 92 in thecurrent model.
Ford's F-150 has 118 wiring splices places wheresomething can go wrong.There are some other great features about the new Chevy and GMCtrucks, too.
They come with a coolant-loss protection system thatallows them to be driven up to 50 miles at 55 miles per hour withno coolant in the radiator.Battery rundown protection is built in: It shuts down theelectrical accessories if any are inadvertently left on after theengine has been turned off.Even the windows have been enlarged for greater visibility.Brighter headlights and backup lights add to the visibility, andthe lights come on automatically when needed.Five engines are available on the Silverado and Sierra, a V-6and four V-8s, including a turbodiesel.
Here are the choices:It sounds bad, but consider: America is doing quite well, thankyou.
Our robust economic growth, low unemployment and negligibleinflation are the envy of the world.The observer, incidentally, is Bill Lyons, president and chiefoperating officer of American Century Cos. Inc., parent company ofthe American Century mutual funds family based in Kansas City.Lyons no doubt is more acutely aware than most that mutual fundassets topped $5 trillion this spring.
That number is up from about$300 billion in 1982, a phenomenon that isn't exactly reflective ofa wastrel society.Put another way, the amount Americans have put into the mutualfund piggy bank since the early 1980s just about equals the growthin the national debt during that time.
Meanwhile, Washingtoncollected hundreds of billions of dollars more in Social Securitytaxes than it needed to finance benefits and spent the surplus.What's ironic about the savings summit is that it's being heldin the nation's capital, where more has probably been done todiscourage thrift than any place in America.
Nevertheless, Congressand the White House ordered the confab to encourage Americans tosave more for their retirement.What's really needed, however, is not so much a talkfest on thesubject but the political embrace of a set of policy measures thatwould eliminate the myriad government-created disincentives tosaving in America.
The first step should be to eliminate taxationof the rewards derived when money is saved rather than spent.
Thesecond step would be creation of a dual Social Security track thatwould allow taxpayers to save some of their payroll taxes for theirown use in personal retirement accounts.Another aspect of this issue is the question of whether thesavings problem really is as bad as many claim.
Judging fromAmerica's enviable situation, it certainly wouldn't seem so.Why is this?
The method of measuring savings distorts reality.The rate is determined simply by subtracting national consumptionfrom after-tax income.
This fails to account for the wealth createdby the soaring stock market or the equity buildup being enjoyed byhomeowners.
Moreover, there's no way to measure the psychologicaldeterrent to saving created by Social Security taxes, which havebecome a heavier load than the income tax burden for a majority oftaxpayers.As for savings, the magnitude isn't as important as the way theresources are used.
Thailand, South Korea and Japan all have muchhigher rates of saving than America, for instance, but thosecountries are a mess.
One reason for the Asian economic turmoil isthat much of the savings were squandered on ill-advisedinvestments.
It doesn't matter how much a society saves if themoney isn't transformed into sound wealth-creating investment.This is something else for the summiteers in Washington to keepin mind.
The masses who provided savings in Asia were essentiallybetrayed by their political and business leaders.
Now they have theworst of all worlds: diminished prosperity and increasinglydoubtful prospects for comfortable retirements.Body and drive combinations are numerous: There are regular andextended-cab models in short- and long-bed versions, both with thestandard bed and the step-side bed and in two- or four-wheeldrive.
They also come with varying suspensions, from a smoothon-road configuration to a tough off-road one.The Chevy trucks come in three trim levels: base, midlevel LSand uplevel LT. Leather seats are available in Chevy and GMCmodels, as are front bucket seats.I've driven most of the new trucks, in both the GMC and Chevyversions, including the four-wheel-drive models with the sportyZ-71 off-road package.
I put one of those to the test on a ruggeddirt road from Oracle, Ariz., to the top of Mount Lemmon, nearTucson, and found the optional AutoTrac automatic four-wheel-drivesystem to be convenient for on- and off-road use.
The systemengages the front axle whenever the rear wheels begin to spin,automatically transferring power up front.These trucks also can be easily equipped for serioustrailer-towing.
The Silverado's Z82 trailering package makes it themost trailer-ready pickup on the market, Chevy says.
It includesplug-ins for trailer lights and electric brakes.
And a tow/haulmode in the automatic transmission changes the vehicle's shiftpatterns to improve performance while towing.
There's a button atthe end of the gearshift lever to switch the transmission intotowing mode.The cabs are comfortable, and there's room for six adults withthree abreast in front and rear.
Road and wind noise aresurprisingly light for a truck.I couldn't find anything bad to say about these trucks, exceptthat there is no four-door extended-cab model planned.
That coulddrive some sales to the Dodge Ram Quad-Cab.
Overall performance,however, outshines that of the Ford and the Dodge, and only theRam's V-10 engine has more power than the best of the Gms.Those of you concerned about the environment might like to knowthat all of these trucks' plastic parts are recyclable.
There are44 pounds less scrap metal produced in the manufacture of eachtruck that in the current model.The Package: Full-size, two- or three-door,two-to-six-passenger, V-6 or V-8 powered, rear- or four-wheel-drivepickup truck, an all-new replacement for the C/K models; alsoavailable in GMC version, called the Sierra.Highlights: Stronger, bigger, more powerful and more high-techthan before; significant but not outrageous restyling; built well;most powerful V-8 engines in the class; roomier than thecompetition; lots of standard safety features, including four-wheelantilock brakes as standard equipment.(G.
Chambers Williams III writes on transportation issues forthe Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
His mailing address isStar-Telegram/Northeast, 3201 Airport Freeway, Suite 108, Bedford,Texas 76021; his E-mail address is chambers(at)star-telegram.com.Fax: (817) 685-3883.
Check out his Wheelin' new-car review columnweekly on the Internet atww.netarrant.net/today/news/opinions/necol.htm.
Visit theStar-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:www.star-telegram.com) Waffle-Crete started looking for sales in Southeast Asia earlyin the decade, and now the region accounts for two-thirds of itssales.
The Hays company, which employs about 35 persons, makesconcrete forms used in construction.A handful of U.S. ambassadors stationed in Southeast Asiaaddressed the daylong conference at the Kansas City MarriottDowntown hotel, describing the problems facing the countries inwhich they are posted.The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, representsa part of the world that has experienced torrid economic growth inrecent years.
But currency problems and bad bank debt lately havehurt the region.
In some nations, such as Indonesia, social andpolitical unrest have followed.Gov.
Mel Carnahan, in a luncheon speech, said he had taken adelegation of businesspeople to Asia and planned to tour otherparts of the world because the global economy is increasinglyimportant to Missouri.Larry Jensen, a U.S. senior commercial officer based in Jakarta,said Indonesia would rebound in two or three years.Still, turmoil from a recent change of government leadership canmake it difficult to do business in Indonesia.Thomas Hubbard, ambassador to the Philippines, said that adecade ago the country experienced internal troubles similar tothose in Indonesia.The Philippines' economy will grow by 2 percent to 3 percentthis year and 4 percent to 5 percent next year, he said.
Exportsare soaring, particularly of Japanese and U.S. goods manufacturedin the country, he said.And growth in the Philippines will take off once the countryrecovers from the currency and stock market collapses it recentlysustained.Vietnam has consolidated the number of government-ownedenterprises from 12,000 to 6,000 in recent years, according toDennis Harter, deputy chief of the U.S. mission in Hanoi.
Communistleaders still have not embraced capitalist market economics.In Thailand, banks are saddled with bad debts of $25 billion,about 20 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, accordingto William Itoh, U.S. ambassador to the country.On Thursday, Sprint Corp. said rates for daytime long-distancecalls were dropping to 10 cents a minute for residential customers.Previously, the dime rate was available only at night and onweekends, and daytime customers were charged 25 cents a minute.The dime rate will be available free only to customers who rackup long-distance bills of $30 a month or more.
Otherwise, customerswill be charged a fee of $4.95 a month to qualify for the dimerate.As part of the Sprint Sense AnyTime plan, the company isoffering a rate of 25 cents a minute for calls billed to a callingcard and new rates for collect calls.
A new dime-a-minutecollect-calling plan offers consumers the dime rate 24 hours a daywith a $1.95 surcharge per call.
The plan is called 1-800-one-dime.The Westwood-based Sprint will continue to offer its SprintSense plan, with a dime-a-minute rate at nights and on weekends anda rate of 25 cents a minute during the day, with no fees or minimumcharges.ATT Corp. also offers a rate of 10 cents a minute, but only tocustomers who sign up for the company's One Rate Plus plan, whichcarries a fee of $4.95 a month.MCI Communications Corp., the second-largest long-distancecompany, has a plan that offers low rates during the evening and onweekends but higher rates during the day.
The MCI One plan offersconsumers long-distance for 10 cents a minute at night and onSaturday, 5 cents a minute on Sundays and 25 cents a minute duringthe day during the week.The best long-distance plan offered by any of the top fivelong-distance companies comes from Qwest, which offers 10 cents aminute with no fees.
Excel, the No.
5 carrier, offers 10 cents aminute with a fee of $1 a month.Smaller companies, which purchase time on the networks of largercompanies, sometimes offer the lowest rates.CGI Long Distance Services, based in Mission, offers a rate of10 cents a minute.
Customers can keep their existing long-distanceservice and get the CGI service by dialing a seven-digit accesscode.A Miami company, One Flat Rate.Com, advertises on the Internetthat it offers a flat rate of 8.9 cents a minute with no fees.The amendment which for the first time in a generation wouldhave permitted school-sponsored organized prayer and religiousdisplays on public property received a majority with 224 votes.Had the amendment passed, it would have required a similarmajority in the Senate and then ratification by three-fourths ofthe state legislatures.But the measure was a victory in any case for religiousconservatives and their supporters in Congress, who had made it alegislative priority.
It was the first time in 27 years thatCongress recorded a vote on a school prayer amendment andThursday's vote will become a political marker for the fallelections.An effort to remove the word from the measure was defeated, aswas an attempt to send the entire amendment back to committee.And while the issue was certain to evoke strong passions, thedebate took on an even greater urgency among supporters.
Against abackdrop of recent killings in several of the nation's schools,many speakers equated the attacks with the absence of a religiouspresence in the classroom.Supporters argued that children ought to be able to initiatevoluntary prayers in classrooms, at graduations, at sporting eventsand other school activities.
The amendment, they said, does notrequire that everyone must join in, nor does it prescribe whatprayer should be said, nor establish an official religion.But since the last vote on school prayer in 1971 when thesupporters actually gained more votes with 240 in favor and 163against but still failed to reach a two-thirds majority faith andfamily issues have moved center stage, especially in politics.The coalition leaders have said they intend to send out 45million voter guides next fall and the school prayer vote is likelyto be one of its leading political indicators.Several complained that the rules governing the debate of theamendment were patched together at the last minute and didn'treflect the importance of the issue.Each side boasted its own lists of interdenominational backing.But as symbolic as the debate promised to be, it was largely madein a near-empty chamber.The galleries were half-full with tourists, scout groups andothers, while below, on the blue, red and gold carpeted floor, onlya few members were present at any one time, except during a vote,when the hall was full.The vote was almost strictly on party lines.
One who did breakranks, Rep. Amo Houghton Jr., a New York Republican, captured theflavor of the debate.WASHINGTON Prodded by the Supreme Court, a three-judge appealscourt panel agreed Friday to consider whether President Clinton'sclosest confidant and three Secret Service employees must testifybefore a federal grand jury investigating an alleged presidentialaffair and cover-up.The judges two of them appointed by Clinton announced thatarguments would be heard in the final week of June.By refusing to shortcut the normal appeals route, the SupremeCourt handed Starr his first court setback since he beganinvestigating the president's relationship with former White Houseintern Monica Lewinsky.Starr's second loss came Friday when Chief U.S. District JudgeNorma Holloway Johnson released a May 22 order refusing theprosecutor's request for access to records of a Barnes Noblebookstore that might show books purchased by Lewinsky.
The judgeruled that Lewinsky's purchases were irrelevant to Starr'sinvestigation.Once the three-judge panel rules, each decision can be appealedto the entire 11-member Court of Appeals, which includes sevenRepublican appointees.
From there, the cases could be appealed tothe Supreme Court.The White House has argued that Bruce Lindsey, a longtime friendof President Clinton who serves as deputy White House counsel,should not have to tell Starr's grand jury about his conversationswith the president about the Lewinsky matter.White House lawyers say Lindsey's conversations are protected bythe attorney-client privilege, which shields most communicationbetween a client and lawyer.
Starr argues that the privilege doesnot apply to government lawyers, like Lindsey, who have informationabout criminal behavior.The Justice Department and the Treasury Department, whichoversees the Secret Service, have asserted that the president'ssecurity detail should not be forced to cooperate with Starr'sinquiry because doing do would undermine the essential trust chiefexecutives must have in those who protect them.Johnson last month sided with Starr and ruled against theClinton administration on both the privilege claims, which promptedappeals.In court documents filed in the past week, Starr and his team ofprosecutors argue that Lindsey and the Secret Service haveinformation vital to determining whether Clinton or othersobstructed justice by trying to cover up his alleged sexualmisbehavior.In its order expediting consideration of the Clintonadministration appeals of Johnson's orders, the three-judge panelset arguments for June 26 in the Secret Service case and the weekof June 29 on the Lindsey matter.
A. Raymond Randolph, 54, who was deputy solicitor generalunder Robert Bork.
Named by President Bush to the Washington-basedCourt of Appeals in 1990, Randolph has a reputation as anintellectual and a tough questioner during oral arguments.
Judith W. Rogers, 58, a Harvard-educated former assistantattorney general who served as chief federal judge of theWashington district before Clinton elevated her to the appealscourt.
Prior to her appointment to the federal bench by PresidentReagan, Rogers served as a corporation counsel for the District ofColumbia government.
David Tatel, 56, a liberal who served in the Carteradministration as director of the Office of Civil Rights at theDepartment of Health, Education and Welfare.
Appointed to theappeals court by Clinton in 1994, Tatel is admired by liberals andconservatives for his fairness and thorough questioning during oralarguments.WASHINGTON The House narrowly approved a plan Friday to cuttaxes and spending far more deeply than last year's bipartisanbalanced budget deal.
The move puts Republicans on anotherideological collision course with the White House over the size androle of the federal government.Despite the defection of nine moderates in the party unwillingto support spending reductions of the magnitude called for in thebudget outline, the Republican leadership rammed the measurethrough by a 216-204 vote after a contentious debate and someintense arm-twisting.The House plan calls for about $100 billion in tax cuts over thenext five years, offset by spending cuts of the same amount.
Theprimary tax cut would be a reduction in the so-called marriagepenalty, the provision in the tax code that forces many two-incomecouples to pay more than they would if single.It must be reconciled with a version passed by the Senate thatcalls for $30 billion in tax cuts and keeps spending largely on thepath agreed to by Congress and President Clinton in last year'sbalanced budget deal.
And even after the House and Senate resolvetheir differences, the resulting budget plan does not become lawbut rather serves as a general blueprint for drafting spending andtax bills.The House decided Friday to increase military spending slightlybefore accounting for the effects of inflation, but to reducedomestic spending substantially.
The plan did not specify whatprograms would be cut from the budget, which next year will totalabout $1.7 trillion, and postponed most of the reductions untillater years.House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who worked the House floor untilthe final moments to insure that wavering moderates voted yes, saidit was clear that the House would have to move in the Senate'sdirection, somewhat diluting the party's ideological message.
Housemembers are also under pressure from many governors to softenprovisions that would cut promised welfare block grants to thestates.But a split-the-difference compromise with the Senate, yieldingtax and spending cuts of $60 billion or so over the next fiveyears, would put the Republicans into a potentially bruising fightwith the White House and congressional Democrats heading into thefall election campaign.Indeed, despite the prospect of huge budget surpluses for yearsto come, the two parties are having much the same argument theywere having two years ago when they both anticipated deficits wellinto the future.In his budget proposal early this year, Clinton called for morethan $100 billion of new spending programs in education, child careand health care, paid for in part by revenues the White House hopeswill be generated by anti-smoking legislation that may or may notpass Congress.
Clinton's budget called for $20 billion of narrowlytargeted tax cuts.Moreover, Democratic strategists said, Friday's vote could giveDemocrats potent ammunition in their effort to win back control ofthe House by putting some moderate Republicans in key districts onrecord as favoring what their Democratic opponents in the fall willportray as extreme cuts.Still, conservative Republicans seemed to be spoiling foranother ideological fight.
After having seen their fervor forsmaller government dissipate last year under pressure to reach apragmatic budget-balancing compromise with Clinton, Gingrich andhis lieutenants were clearly eager to reassert their conservativecredentials in advance of this year's mid-term Congressionalelections.The most conservative Republicans had been pressing for $150billion in tax and spending cuts, but gave way when it becameapparent that such big cuts would make it impossible to pass theplan in the House.Although the party's leadership came up with the needed votes,some moderates said they were voting for the plan only reluctantly,fearing that the combination of big tax cuts and unspecified futurespending reductions imposed too much of a strain on legitimategovernment programs and risked the nation's newfound fiscal health.But during the floor debate, Gingrich appealed to party loyaltyand warned potential dissidents not to distance themselves from theparty's accomplishments of the past few years.MEXICO CITY The first showers of the rainy season have fallenacross parts of Mexico and Central America but have failed toquench many wildfires that are destroying virgin forests andfeeding a smoke cloud that is drifting across the southern UnitedStates, officials said Friday.Mexican and American officials predicted that some fires, whichhave consumed millions of acres of forest and grassland across theregion, may continue to rage for several weeks.
About 150 fires, 23of them large, very destructive blazes, were burning this week.The U.S. delegation visited Mexico to coordinate a $5 millionassistance program, which includes a heavy-lift helicopter andradios, as well as boots and other safety equipment for 3,000Mexican forest rangers.
Many Mexican firefighters have been wearingstraw hats and sandals while battling flames with buckets of water.The American officials praised Mexico's battle to control thefires, in which more than 60 firefighters have died this year.He said many, perhaps most, of the blazes have started asout-of-control agricultural fires, set by peasant farmers whoprepare their fields for planting by burning the previous year'sstubble.
In other cases, forests have been set afire to clear plotsfor growing marijuana or opium, he said.WASHINGTON Republican leaders mustered enough support Fridayto pass a five-year $101 billion tax cut plan, but it was hardly avictory for some GOP moderates concerned that making deeperreductions in social programs to pay for it could hurt them in anelection year.The non-binding budget resolution was approved by a narrowmargin of 216-204.
It lays out an ambitious plan to cut taxes by anadditional $101 billion over the next five years and to pay for itby making the same amount of cuts in various entitlement programs.But it fails to specify how much would be trimmed from areas suchas welfare, education and Medicaid, and it includes norecommendations on how to pay for $25 billion in extra spendingincluded in the recently approved highway and agriculture bills.Several moderate Republican who voted against the resolutionsaid they were concerned about the lack of specifics in the measureand warned that the tax cuts might be too much at a time when thecountry is still saddled with an estimated $6 trillion debt.In an attempt to head off an embarrassing defeat of theresolution, Republican leaders twisted arms right up until the lastminute in hopes of keeping together enough of their GOP colleaguesto pass it.
They were aided in their efforts by the defection of ahandful of conservative Democrats.But despite the outcome in favor of more tax cuts, the House GOPplan has almost no chance of standing up in conference with theSenate, which has approved a more modest five-year budget blueprintcalling for $30 billion in tax cuts and few spending reductionsbeyond those outlined in last year's balanced budget agreement withPresident Clinton.Indeed, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M.,has criticized the House resolution for not identifying wherespending reductions would be made to pay for the tax cuts, whichwould come largely from the elimination of the so-called marriagepenalty.Ending the marriage penalty, or the extra tax that an estimated21 million couples would not have to pay if they were still filingas singles, would benefit mostly upper, two-income families.
That'swhy some Republican moderates are worried that cuts in socialprograms that affect the poor and retired could backfire on them inan election year.Elimination of the marriage penalty has long been a goal ofpro-family conservatives, and Gingrich promised in a meetingseveral weeks ago with social and religious conservative leadersthat it would be included in the GOP budget plan.Although the budget resolution is non-binding, it is used to setthe broad goals for spending and revenues as Congress goes aboutits annual ritual of authorizing and appropriating funds forgovernment departments and agencies.For example, the GOP House blueprint, authored by BudgetCommittee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, calls for spending $1.73trillion on federal programs in 1999.
It envisions a budget surplusof $34 billion next year and $223 billion by 2004.
Kasich's planalso delays most of its tax and spending cuts until 2003.In their effort to defeat the measure, Democratic opponents drewattention to the differences between the Kasich plan and the budgetresolution recently passed by the Senate.
Differences over the twomeasures, they warned, could lead to another government shutdownthis fall.In rallying to pass the Kasich plan, the Republicans rejected abudget proposal sponsored by Rep. John Spratt, D-S.C., that wassimilar in many ways to the plan passed by the Senate.
It alsocontained $30 billion in tax cuts over five years with few spendingreductions.
But it would have increased spending on education,welfare, Medicaid and other programs by $10 billion.
The increasesin those areas, however, would have been paid for by the sameamount of cuts in other entitlement programs.
XXXX END OF STORY The Dow Jones industrial average, after weeks of sluggishtrading, rose 167.15 points, or 1.88 percent, to close at 9,037.71,its biggest surge in four months.The gains in blue-chip issues created a broad two-day rally inequity prices, and even lifted bond prices, after two days ofgovernment reports portrayed an economy that was revving on allcylinders.The reports, one on Thursday which said that factory orders,productivity and retail sales were rising, and another Friday thatshowed strong job growth with little inflationary pressure, set offa buying spree on Wall Street, particularly in blue-chip stocks.The Standard Poor's 500-stock index soared 19.03 points, or1.74 percent, to close at 1,113.86 and the technology-heavy Nasdaqcomposite gained 12.97 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to1,782.92.Wall Street analysts said the reports suggested that thedomestic economy may be resilient enough to withstand the festeringeconomic crisis in Asia, which dented investor sentiment lastOctober, and that a slowdown in corporate profit growth at home maysoon reverse course.In recent weeks, though, weakening profit growth and highvaluations had largely sapped enthusiasm for stocks, punishingscores of technology shares, and knocking 4.4 percent off the Dow'sall-time high of 9,211.84, set in May.But again and again in this bull market, investors have beenwarmed by a steady stream of government reports about an economythat has managed to steer a deft middle ground between economicmight and slackening growth.That outlook which many skeptics have long cast doubt on seemed to be hinted at in Friday's government report, which managedto cheer both stock and bond investors.
Stock investors because itseemed to portend solid profits; bond investors because they didnot see inflation accelerating in the jobs data.As a result, while the Dow soared in early trading, bond pricesalso rose.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed half apoint, pushing down its benchmark yield to 5.78 percent from 5.82 aday earlier, the lowest close since early January, meaning thatlong-term interest rates are once again near a 25-year low.
(Bondprices and their yields move in opposite directions.
)That enthusiastic combination fed on itself throughout the day.Investors, tentative since early April, went back to their favoritebig, blue-chip issues, such as Walt Disney, Merck and IBM.GIBSONBURG, Ohio.
Last Friday I asked my 8th-graders to closetheir books (Saroyan's, The Human Comedy) and define the word(ITAL)dignity(END ITAL).
For a long few seconds, nothing happened.Then Johnny went for a dictionary.They're looking a bit bored, and I'm beginning to think maybeI'm whistling in the wind - again.
Saved by the bell.GIBSONBURG, Ohio.
Last Friday I asked my 8th-graders to closetheir books (Saroyan's, The Human Comedy) and define the word(ITAL)dignity(END ITAL).
For a long few seconds, nothing happened.Then Johnny went for a dictionary.They're looking a bit bored, and I'm beginning to think maybeI'm whistling in the wind - again.
Saved by the bell.Suddenly, they can be seen everywhere, these CompagnieRpublicaine de Scurit foot soldiers.
And while their only visibleweapons are a glare, a long black billy club and what appear to besteel-toed jackboots, they are not to be trifled with.
I findmyself practically tiptoeing in their presence, because they havebeen trained to assume guilt, not innocence.The latter group notwithstanding, the French have bravelypromised unprecedented hospitality for the Coupe du Monde, theSuper Bowl for the rest of the world that starts Wednesdayafternoon at the new Stade du France, an I.M.
Pei-designed marvelin the gritty northern suburb of Saint-Denis.
But they have alsoflat-out guaranteed unprecedented levels of security.With England's notorious soccer rowdies just a Chunnel rideaway, and the Islamic crazies from Algeria plotting more heinouscrimes against humanity as we speak despite being busted recentlyin a major pre-emptive strike, nothing is being left to chance.
Onehundred million francs have been spent by World Cup organizers,with the government putting up a couple of billion more.The technology in the Stade, where the championship game will beJuly 12, is such that hidden cameras can focus on every one of the80,000 faces in the stands and print out an instant mug shot.
So ifyou're lucky enough to have a ticket, remember not to be withsomeone you're not supposed to be with, and by all means don't pickyour nose.In Marseilles, where the English and the Tunisians tangle, BigBrother will be watching especially closely.
There, the lgiontrangre yes, the beau geste bunch, the French Foreign Legion has been charged with keeping the peace.Already, they are not happy campers.
Marching through Charles deGaulle Airport in full combat gear upon their arrival, theLegionnaires roughed up several tourists, confiscating the camerasof those who innocently tried to take pictures.But in our world, security must be an overriding concern.France, the most visited country on the planet on a per-capitabasis (tourists to residents), will be overrun by an extra 2.5million soccer-crazy partisans in the weeks ahead, and some of themwill be from places where fomentation is the national pastime.Iran, the U.S. team's opponent in Lyon on June 21, comes quicklyto mind.
But the Iranians who have tickets should be a docilebunch.
The vast majority of them are government functionaries whohad a well-placed brother-in-law or cousin, and they are mad onlyabout their soccer lads.At Iran's tourist office on the Champs Elyses, a giantphotograph of the country's superstar, Ali Daei, has been pastedabove the door.
The Great Satan became a back-burner concern themoment the Iranians qualified last in the field of 32 with afinal-minute goal in their final match.Because few soccer fans will wind up on Alpine peaks or inbackwoods hostelries, the potential for chaos in the nine citieshosting competition (two Paris-area stadiums are being used) ishuge.
Nothing ruins the global-village, hands-across-the-waterideal quicker than a bomb in a trash container or, almost as bad, asudden rail strike.France's transportation-sector employees were made to sign bloodoaths to be kind to tourists, but the contract didn't include ano-walkout promise.
So Paris Metro workers and those of the RER(regional) and SNCF (national) railways have staged halfhearted but ominous work stoppages in support of their proletarianbrothers, the striking Air France pilots.If there is carnage during the World Cup, chances are it won'thave political overtones.
The worst riots will be caused byhysterical fans who have been told the soccer express toSaint-Etienne or Toulouse has been canceled and they're going tomiss their nation's game.NEW YORK Relief in the late innings is standard operatingprocedure for the post-operative David Cone, and predictably, thephone rang in the New York Yankees' bullpen in the sixth inningSunday.
Graeme Lloyd got up after Cone hit one batter and walkedanother, but when Cone retired Florida's Mark Kotsay, Lloyd satdown without throwing a pitch.Yankees relievers kept popping up in the bullpen over the nextthree innings, like in a carnival game, but they would sit backdown when Cone continued to get outs, including the last.
Coneallowed two hits, struck out 14 batters and pitched his firstcomplete game since May 2, 1996, in beating the Florida Marlins 4-1before 47,731 at Yankee Stadium.The Yankees and Marlins are inhabiting opposite ends of baseballat the moment.
The Yankees have won seven straight games and 43 oftheir last 52, and they are 44-13 over all; at this rate, theywould finish 125-37.
The Marlins, the champions of baseball lastseason, have lost 11 straight, and at this rate they would win 45and lose 117.
The Marlins began play Sunday 25 games behind theAtlanta Braves in the NL East; according to the Elias SportsBureau, the last team to be that far behind after 60 games was the1962 New York Mets, arguably the worst team ever.But Cone, who has won all eight of his decisions since losinghis first on April 4, would have been highly effective against anyteam.
Fresh from eight days of rest, he threw hard, he had goodcontrol improvement, Yankees manager Joe Torre said, that hadbeen evident in his last start, before his mother's Jack Russellterrier bit him on the right index finger.Cone was often erratic in his first nine starts.
But there wasone consistent aspect to his pitching: his slider spun down andaway from right-handed hitters, six inches to a foot off theoutside edge of the strike zone.Rarely did umpires call it for strikes, and Cone was not castingthe pitch close enough to home plate to tempt hitters intoswinging.
His slider, which has been his best pitch in recentyears, had lost its value.
There had to be a way he could throw itmore effectively.After Veronica, his mother's dog, bit his hand, Cone frettedabout the effect the cut would have on his split-fingered fastball,a pitch that requires pressure from his index finger.
Catcher JoeGirardi called for only one splitter in the first six innings, butin the seventh, with the end in sight, Cone started throwing thepitch one more thing for the Marlins' hitters to worry about.Cone whiffed two in the seventh, to reach 10.Paul O'Neill, Tino Martinez and Bernie Williams all had homeredin the early innings, and the Yankees led by 4-0 as Cone took themound for the eighth.
He struck out three more in the inning, butlost the shutout on a booming double.
Torre intended to call on areliever for the ninth, before Cone told him he wanted to throw thelast inning.With his home run in the first inning, Paul O'Neill extended hishitting streak to 15 games, the longest by a Yankee this season.... O'Neill, Tino Martinez and Bernie Williams all homered, thefirst time this season the Yankees' 3-4-5 hitters had hit home runsin the same game and only the second time any two of them hithomers in the same game.
...
The Yankees have either won or tiedtheir last 22 series, extending the franchise record.
It is themost since the 1970 Cincinnati Reds won or tied 24 consecutiveseries.If Kenneth Starr has his way, any American who consults a lawyerfrom now on will face the possibility that after his or her deaththe lawyer will be forced to testify about the conversation infederal criminal proceedings.
The confidential character of thelawyer-client relationship will end.That is the position taken by Starr in a case being argued inthe Supreme Court on Monday.
He wants to see three pages ofhandwritten notes that were taken by a Washington lawyer, JamesHamilton, when Vincent Foster came to see him in 1993.
Foster,assistant White House counsel, was suffering from severedepression.
Nine days later he committed suicide.No federal prosecutor before Starr has made that claim.
Adivided U.S. Court of Appeals held in this case that thelawyer-client privilege could be overridden if a trial judge foundthat a lawyer's evidence about a deceased client was likely to besubstantial and unavailable elsewhere.
But Starr, unsatisfied withthat balancing of interests, asks the Supreme Court to hold thatthe privilege always ends with death.But a truthful person may want to speak in confidence to alawyer.
The criminal law is so full of traps for the unwary thesedays that anyone even tangentially concerned would be a fool notto.
The discussion may well include the client's suspicions aboutothers that he would not want published after his death.
And hemight care about his own posthumous reputation.Fear of later disclosure may lead an honest person to keepthings back from a lawyer to be less than candid.
Thelawyer-client privilege is rooted deeply in our law preciselybecause it encourages the client to speak candidly and enables thelawyer to give meaningful advice.Starr's position in the Foster privilege case is not a solitaryexample of extremism.
As independent counsel he has repeatedlypressed at and beyond the edge of appropriate prosecutorialbehavior.One tactic he uses is to call people before the grand jury againand again.
Betty Currie, President Clinton's secretary, is onevictim of that practice, which reeks of abuse.Then there is the notorious treatment of Susan McDougal.
Aftershe served 18 months in prison for civil contempt for refusing, shesays, to testify as Starr wanted, he paraded her in chains one moretime and had her indicted for criminal contempt.Most troublesome of all is Starr's penchant for imagining, andinvestigating, plots against his inquiry.
A man who urgedprosecution of Linda Tripp for violating Maryland law when shetape-recorded her telephone conversations with Monica Lewinsky wascalled before Starr's grand jury.
So was a Pentagon official, to bequestioned about the disclosure that Ms. Tripp had omitted from aPentagon security form the fact that she was once arrested forgrand larceny.Anyone who resists Starr's overreaching is likely to bedenounced for delaying the investigation or obstructing justice.Too much of the press voices such criticism, unable to see thedangers of a prosecutor with no restraints of time or money.Starr wants to win: to bring down President Clinton.
Thatobsession led him last week to the folly of telling the SupremeCourt that the country urgently needed expedited review of anotherof his cases: a threadbare claim.
The court, one institution thatdoes not dance to his tune, said no.The point, now as in the McCarthy days, is to remember thelarger interest: our interest in liberty and privacy.
It is notjust Bill Clinton who will lose if Kenneth Starr truncates thelawyer-client privilege.
We all will.WASHINGTON When Gov.
Lawton Chiles of Florida sued the tobaccoindustry in early 1995, he ignited a legal and political war thatraged for the next three years.
During the course of the lawsuit torecoup smoking-related health costs, which culminated in an $11.3billion settlement last summer, tobacco interests poured more than$1 million into the state, most of it going to political opponentsof the governor, a Democrat.Since 1995, the tobacco industry has contributed $592,000 to theFlorida Republican Party, more than twice what it gave to FloridaDemocrats.
The industry also sprinkled an additional $338,244 amongfriendly state legislators and other Florida political groups, manyof whom opposed the state's lawsuit and tried unsuccessfully toderail it.Cigarette makers' heavy contributions in Florida are part of anational mosaic, according to an analysis of state party financialrecords conducted for The New York Times by the Campaign StudyGroup, a private research firm.
Since 1995, when many states joinedFlorida in filing lawsuits against the tobacco industry, Republicanand Democratic state party central committees in 26 states,including Florida, have received $1.8 million in donations fromtobacco interests.As the Senate considers comprehensive tobacco legislation at thefederal level, attention has focused on the big donations from thefive major tobacco companies and a few other tobacco industrysupporters to the Republican National Committee and variousRepublican and Democratic lawmakers.But scant attention has been paid to the industry's donations atthe state level, in part because these contributions are muchharder to track.
The state parties have varying disclosurerequirements.
Contributions to federal candidates are disclosedseveral times a year to the Federal Election Commission.The $1.8 million in tobacco contributions to the state partiesis important in light of legislation being debated in the House ofRepresentatives to ban corporate and labor union contributions tothe national parties.
If such legislation is enacted, otherindustries could follow the tobacco manufacturers' lead and begincontributing much larger amounts to state parties.
Many statesallow unlimited contributions to a state party.The Campaign Study Group analyzed the election records of thestate party central committees in every state.
In addition to thedonations from tobacco interests to the state Democratic andRepublican Parties, the study found an additional $1.7 million incontributions since 1995 to state candidates and other committeesin four states that make complete campaign finance data forcandidates and other state parties readily available.Given the less specific disclosure rules in the other states, itis almost impossible to determine the total contributions toindividual state candidates, but campaign finance analysts believethat cigarette makers, as well as other industries, are giving hugeamounts.According to the analysis of the tobacco industry's state-levelpolitical contributions, one cigarette maker, the Philip MorrisCos., accounted for 62 percent of the $1.8 million given by tobaccointerests to the state parties.
And 70 percent of the $1.8 millionwent to Republicans.The big tobacco companies have donated more money at the federallevel, contributing nearly $4 million to the Republican NationalCommittee and $325,000 to the Democratic National Committee since1995.
The state party contributions are significant because theycame at a time when the tobacco industry was trying to slow a legaljuggernaut that began when the Democratic attorney general ofMississippi filed a lawsuit in 1994 to recover smoking-relatedMedicaid costs from the big tobacco companies.Subsequently, some 40 other states sued the cigarette makers.These lawsuits led to last year's historic $368.5 billionsettlement between a group of state attorneys general and thetobacco industry.
But the settlement is subject to approval by theCongress.
Comprehensive tobacco legislation introduced in theSenate has faced stiff opposition and prospects in the House arealso cloudy.Of the 26 states in which the tobacco industry donated funds tostate party central committees, nearly half went to Florida.
Thenext largest donations went to New York, where the Republican statecommittee received $254,100 and the Democrats received $5,000 , andWashington State where the Republicans got $121,000 and theDemocrats received nothing.In the 11 states receiving the b ulk of the tobaccodonations, Republican committeesreceived more than the Democrats inall but two.
In Missouri, the Democratic committee received $96,500and the Republicans received $41,000.
In Nebraska, the Democratsgot $20,000 white the Republicans received nothing.
In the 15 otherstates, the parties received less than $10,000 each.
The tobaccocompanies say their state-level contributions were not intended toblunt lawsuits but to support local, pro-business candidates andlegislation.The tobacco contributions in Florida have become an issue in thecoming gubernatorial contest between the likely Democraticcandidate, Lt. Gov.
Buddy MacKay, and the likely Republicancandidate, Jeb Bush.
Bush's campaign has called MacKay a hypocritefor portraying himself as an anti-tobacco crusader who eschewstobacco donations, while the state's Democratic Party took in$25,000 in 1998 from tobacco interests.
Republicans received$42,000 from tobacco interests.While the state lawsuits have been an important concern, thereare other issues at the state level that are critical to tobacco,including excise taxes and local anti-smoking ordinances.
But somerecipients of tobacco industry money said the contributions werenot tied to particular issues.Some industries contribute to the state parties because theirdonations are sometimes controversial and state-level donations areless noticed than federal contributions.
Gambling and alcoholinterests also contributed heavily to the state parties.
In 1996,the Democratic National Committee directed several tobacco andgaming companies to make their donations to state Democraticparties instead of to the Democratic National Committee.Also, with prospects clouded for federal legislation to enactthe historic settlement reached last year between the cigarettemakers and the states, the pro-tobacco forces may need their alliesat the state level more than ever.CHICAGO As the Chicago Bulls play the Utah Jazz in the NBAFinals, a series that some speculate may be Michael Jordan's LastGames, Last Dance, Last Stand (would one of Jordan's last mealsthen be the Last Repast?
), it would be helpful to consider thecircumstances surrounding the possible grounding of His Airness.To many, the Bulls' coach, Phil Jackson, is the key to Jordan'sbasketball-playing future.
And by extension, the Bulls' managementhas been perceived as that which holds the hand that holds the key.The 35-year-old Jordan has said, and then seemingly hedged, thathe would not return to the Bulls the only team he said he wouldconsider playing for if Jackson was not the coach.
Jackson wasthe bench leader behind all the Bulls' five championships.Jordan has coyly left the impression that he may not govoluntarily into that good night, and that the Bulls' management,like the proprietor of a vaudeville stage, might just be applying ahook, although circumspectly.
That is, no Jackson, no Jordan.Jordan is not alone in this intimation.
Phil Jackson has indirectlyalso allowed the idea to spread.Jackson has repeatedly stated publicly that this would be hislast season.
And why would this be Jackson's last season?
Because,it is generally believed, Bulls management wants it that way, andis pushing Jackson out.Last summer, Jackson indeed signed a one-year contract but hehad been offered a five-year contract, then a two-year contract,and turned them down for the one-year deal.It would be necessary to know, among other points, whetherJackson would want to be involved in rebuilding the Bulls, perhapsthe oldest team in the league.
Jackson has suggested he would not.But like the ghost of Banquo, the notion hovers that in a matterof a fortnight, Jordan will be gone forever from the hardwoodscene, depriving a city, a nation and large pockets of the rest ofthe earth, the moon and the stars the pleasure of his basketballgenius.
It is a genius still wondrous, though, older and achier, heis no longer first in flight.But if Jordan is relying on the Jackson outcome, then it seemssafe to say that the decision is Jackson's, because it isReinsdorf's.MEXICO CITY Alejandra Barrales Magdaleno's views about unionsand labor were forged while she was flying into U.S. cities as a$700-a-month Aeromexico flight attendant, often alongside thosefrom U.S. airlines whose salaries were four times as high.Now as the leader of Mexico's 2,000-member flight attendantsunion, Ms. Barrales symbolizes the more independent and vigorouslabor movement emerging here a year after the death of FidelVelazquez, the union czar who kept workers submissive for decades.With Mexico's economy strengthening after years of crisis, Ms.Barrales brought to a modestly successful conclusion on Saturdayevening the first nationwide strike by one of the politicallyindependent unions that formed a new federation last year.
Theseunions are an important element in Mexico's democratic transition.The contrast could hardly be more dramatic between Velazquez,who was anti-communist, anti-American and when he died last yearat the age of 97 antediluvian, and Ms. Barrales, who is 30 yearsold, politically independent, and an admirer of the U.S., Canadianand European labor movements.There are now fewer strikes in Mexico because so many have beencrushed.
In fact, the government helped management during theflight attendants' strike by seizing control of the airline to keepplanes flying.But during a week of picketing and negotiations, Ms. Barralesmarshaled middle-class support and focused international pressureon management, finally wringing modest salary increases and newbenefits from the airline.Despite Mexican workers' reputation for being among the world'smost long-suffering, the outcome suggests that after nearly twodecades of falling wages, some at least want to lodge moreaggressive demands.The Mexican Workers Confederation known by its initials inSpanish, CTM which Velazquez headed, is still Mexico's largestlabor body by far, representing some 10 million workers.
But lastyear Ms. Barrales helped found a rival federation, the NationalWorkers Union, which now represents some 1.5 million members andappears to be growing fast.During the first decades after Velazquez helped forge thepostrevolutionary labor movement in the 1930s and 1940s, hisofficial federation, which forms one wing of the long-governingInstitutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, won importantimprovements in wages and working conditions in exchange forturning out the vote on election day.But after 1982, the year of a watershed debt crisis, Velazquez'sofficial unions worked mainly to discipline workers into tighteningtheir belts as inflation and devaluations cut into real wages.Sidney Weintraub, an economist at Georgetown University's Centerfor Strategic and International Studies, cited governmentstatistics in a recent article outlining the extraordinary erosionof Mexican wages.
In 1980, he said, Mexican manufacturing workersearned 22 percent of what their U.S. counterparts earned.
By 1996,Mexican wages had fallen to 8 percent of U.S. wages, he said.Few groups of workers have felt this decline more painfully thanthe country's airline employees.
In the wake of a 1988privatization, two-thirds of Aeromexico's 12,000-member work forcewere eliminated, and workers who managed to keep their jobs lostpensions, seniority rights and virtually every other benefit.If some Aeromexico workers viewed the sacrifices as aninvestment in the company's future, the altruism soured in 1994,when Aeromexico's high-flying chief executive suddenly fled Mexicoafter government accusations that he had embezzled $72 million fromthe airline.
He, in turn, through his lawyers, accused PRIofficials of shaking the airline down for $8 million inelection-year contributions even as the company was sliding intobankruptcy.Since Ms. Barrales was elected president of her union in 1995,she has been watching Aeromexico's balance sheets, which have beenimproving.
She said the company earned nearly $100 million inprofits last year.
An Aeromexico spokesman declined to divulge theofficial figure.Before the strike, Aeromexico's most senior flight attendantsearned about $7,400 a year, compared with about $42,000 on U.S.airlines, according to union statistics.
Saturday's agreement willraise salaries by 18 percent and establish a retirement plan.The explosion occurred a little after 4 a.m. near Khairpur, inthe southern province of Sindh, as the Khyber Mail train was makingits run from Karachi to Peshawar.The blast went off under a seat in the middle of a crowdedeconomy-class passenger car, wounding about 32 people in additionto the 23 who were killed, Pakistan Railway officials said.
Thedead included four women and two childrenThe explosion and the swift Pakistani reaction appeared likelyto increase tensions between the two countries longtime enemiesthat have just stunned the world by setting off rival nucleartests.Each has blamed the intelligence services of the other forplanting bombs and stirring up trouble among the region's manyfractious religious and ethnic groups.Hussain, Pakistan's information minister, said the governmenthad an Indian agent in custody who had been captured near theIndian border.
He said the Indian had confessed to similar acts ofterrorism, including 10 bombings in a 9-week period this year thatresulted in 16 deaths and that wounded another 93 people.He suggested, too, that a bombing earlier this week in a movietheater in Lahore, which killed three people and wrecked thetheater, was part of an Indian-sponsored series of terrorist acts.He said the main suspect was an Indian citizen.Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan, on a tour of PersianGulf emirates and Saudi Arabia in hopes of garnering financialsupport in the face of impending sanctions, announced plans tovisit Britain, Canada and the United States in an effort to buildsupport among Pakistani expatriots.
He is scheduled to be in NewYork on June 16.
Money sent home by Pakistanis working abroad isone of the main sources of income in the country's beleagueredeconomy.PHILADELPHIA A year ago, soon after the First Union U.S.professional cycling championship, there were tears for GeorgeHincapie and his family tears of sorrow.
Sunday, there were tearsagain tears of joy as the 24-year-old New York native finallywon the national championship he thought he had captured last year.In a frantic finish to a 156-mile circuit race through streetsand parks that had the pack flying at almost 45 miles an hour atthe end, Hincapie started sprinting with about 270 yards to go.
Hewon by 2 feet, the width of a bike wheel.
Massimiliano Mori and theSaeco-Cannondale team of Italy was second and Tomas Konecny of theCzech Republic and the ZVVZ-Giant team was third.Especially after last year.
George Hincapie came in third here,behind an Italian and an Australian.
As the first Americanfinisher, he became the national champion.
On the victory podium,he was given a national champion's stars-and-stripes jersey and abouquet.
And it was Father's Day, and Ricardo Hincapie had the gifthe wanted most.Eighty minutes later, when they returned to their hotel, thephone rang with awful news: officials said Hincapie's team car hadillegally led him back to the pack after he had a flat tire.
Theydisqualified him.Also the high-rent zone because the $120,160 overall purse (with$30,000 to the winner) makes this the world's richest one-day bikerace.
The first 31 finishers were given the same time 6 hours 6minutes 35 seconds, or 25.53 miles per hour.
Of the 103 starters,66 finished.Hincapie is 6 feet 3 inches and 185 pounds.
He is a fifth-yearpro who got his first bike at age 8 and promptly won a BMX race.
Hewas born in Richmond Hill, N.Y., and at age 11 moved toFarmingdale, N.Y.
He now lives in Charlotte, N.C.He rides for the U.S.
Postal Service team, where his teammatesinclude Lance Armstrong and Frankie Andreu, who were on his firstpro team, Motorola.
When Armstrong was healthy, Hincapie and Andreucomprised his support group.
Now, 20 months after Armstrongunderwent extensive surgery for testicular cancer that had spreadto his abdomen and brain, he has been riding for them.Armstrong kept the race honest.
After five others had brokenaway early and stayed in front for 90 miles and almost four hours,he led the chase that reeled them in.
With 16 miles to go, he ledthe race.
With seven miles to go, he led the race.After that, he pushed the pace, ran down breaks and helped leadHincapie through the pack to a position where Hincapie could win.Armstrong finished 33rd, 19 seconds behind Hincapie.
But as anultimate team player in this ultimate team sport, Armstrong was awinner.
After the race, he was satisfied.Petra Rossner, a 31-year-old German who rides for theVizir-Russian National team, won the $44,737 Liberty Classic forwomen, the world's richest one-day race for women.
She beat DianaZiluite of Lithuania by three bike lengths, or 18 feet.
The first51 finishers were timed in 2 hours 22 minutes 18 seconds for 57.6miles, an average of 24.29 miles an hour.
The race, run during themen's race, drew 115 starters and 96 finishers.
... Jeannie Longoof France and Zulfia Zabirova of Russia, the 1996 Olympicchampions, were involved in a four-rider crash 300 meters from thefinish.
Both suffered scrapes and bruises, and Zabirova washospitalized as a precaution.WASHINGTON Rep. Albert Wynn of Maryland would seem an unlikelyfigure to buck his party on the overhaul of campaign finance laws.After all, he is seeking a position in the House Democraticleadership next year.But like some others in the Congressional Black Caucus, Wynn hasdoubts about banning the unlimited, unregulated contributions topolitical parties, known as soft money, at the heart of abuses inthe 1996 campaign.
His doubts are partly because some of thosecontributions have traditionally paid for get-out-the-vote drives.As the House returns to its campaign finance debate, perhapslater this week, the unlikely bipartisan coalition that has keptthe overhaul debate alive cannot afford to lose many of the threedozen or so Democrats who, like Wynn, are undecided.
Only 30 to 45Republicans are thought to support the moves to reduce money inpolitics.
And that means that every Democratic vote is crucial ifan overhaul measure is to pass.Moreover, holding onto the Democrats is just one of thechallenges facing the coalition as it maneuvers through what couldturn into a summer of legislative traps and pitfalls.The 1996 presidential election saw the virtual collapse of thepost-Watergate campaign finance system, as the two politicalparties found ways to use unregulated contributions to get aroundcampaign spending limits.
But Republican leaders in Congress opposethe effort to tighten the law, seeing it as an effort to erodetheir party's traditional fund-raising advantage.House Speaker Newt Gingrich tried to dispense with the campaignfinance issue in March under rules that never allowed theShays-Meehan bill to the floor.
But the tactic backfired and gavethe issue momentum.
So Gingrich, in an about-face, promised a fulland free-wheeling debate.It may be more like a three-ring circus.
In a House that isusually tightly controlled, the Republicans are allowing a dozenseparate overhaul proposals to be considered, along with 257separate amendments.
(That number has been whittled down fromnearly 600 proposed amendments.)
The proposal that emerges with themost votes will then be taken up for final consideration.Gingrich originally promised the issue would be debated by theend of May.
And debate did begin for several meandering hours andwithout votes just before the Memorial Day recess.
Debate wasscheduled to resume last week, but did not after the House spenttwo days considering the budget.
Republican leaders now say theissue might come up this week, but Democrats suspect they arestalling.Republicans have carefully tailored amendments to create maximumpolitical embarrassment to the Democrats and to split thebipartisan coalition.And Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Calif., has introduced an amendmentreminding voters of the Clinton campaign's excesses.
It wouldprohibit campaign contributions made in exchange for access to theWhite House, Air Force One and Two, the vice president's residenceand Marine One and Two, the helicopters that carry the presidentand vice president.Last week, some supporters of overhauling campaign finance lawsbegan to fear that one measure that might get the most votes wouldcreate a commission to study the issue and draw up a campaignfinance proposal.
Because half of the commission's 12 members wouldbe appointed by Gingrich and by Sen. Trent Lott, the majorityleader, who is also a supporter of the status quo, it was unclearwhat the commission would come up with.The two other leading bipartisan overhaul proposals are theShays-Meehan legislation and a proposal crafted by a group of Housefreshmen.
A difference between the bills is how they deal withunregulated money.The Shays-Meehan bill would effectively ban unregulatedcontributions in federal elections by prohibiting such donations tothe national parties and by prohibiting state parties from usingunregulated money for any activity that could benefit a federalcandidate, including registration and get-out-the vote drives.The bill drafted by the freshmen would ban the nationalpolitical parties and federal candidates from raising money throughunregulated contributions.
State political parties could raise anduse such contributions but not transfer them between states.A number of advocates of overhaul say they will vote for theShays-Meehan legislation and then fall back to the freshman bill iftheir first choice does not gain a 218-vote majority.Shays says that he has more than 200 votes and that he andMeehan are trying to woo as many as 60 undecided lawmakers.Rep.
Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., who is the House minority leader, isalso trying to unite Democrats around Shays's legislation.
His votecounters say the Democratic holdouts are, for the most part, eitherminority lawmakers concerned about get-out-the-vote drives oranti-abortion Democrats who have been swayed by the National Rightto Life Committee, which fiercely opposes spending and advertisingrestrictions.Republians face a different choice: whether to split with theirparty and join forces with the small group of Republicans who wantto change Washington politics.
Rep. Zach Wamp, R-Tenn., who favorsoverhaul, predicted that more of his colleagues than expected mightdo so rather than cast an election-year vote to stop change.BOSTON Forget about giving Mike Piazza a bat and PedroMartinez a baseball to settle their continuing dispute aboutMartinez's inside fastball that plunked Piazza in the left hand onFriday night.Just rent out Madison Square Garden, hand each player amicrophone and let Vince McMahon be the promoter.
This verbalskirmish about whether Martinez intended to hit Piazza has all theearmarks of professional wrestling.The fierce animosity between Piazza and Martinez escalatedSunday after Piazza, the Mets' catcher, chastised Martinez, the RedSox pitcher, for lacking decorum in uttering two expletives inreference to him in an interview for Sunday's Boston Herald.
Aperturbed Martinez countered by insisting that he has more classthan Piazza, who comes from a wealthy background.Martinez fired back with words as biting as one of his chin-highfastballs and made reference to Piazza's perennially hefty bankaccount.Piazza, who has been out of the lineup since suffering thebruised hand and was not scheduled to start Sunday night, accusedMartinez of trying to obscure the fact that he cursed in aninterview to be published in a paper that children might read.Martinez agreed that expletives are not proper language forpublication.It is hard to imagine that Piazza and Martinez were teammateswith the Dodgers for part of 1992 and all of 1993.
After Martinezhit Piazza with a 2-2 pitch and first base open in the first inningon Friday, Piazza intimated strongly that he had been a target.The innuendo bothered Martinez, who is notorious for throwinginside at hitters and does not dispute the reputation.Of course, that prompted an angry response from Piazza.
Standingin the cramped clubhouse at Fenway Park before Sunday night's gameagainst the Red Sox, Piazza speculated that Martinez's sensitivityabout the subject might be evidence that he had thrown at him onpurpose.
Keeping with the World Wrestling Federation theme, Piazzaeven challenged Martinez to journey the 200 yards across Fenway tolocate him.Despite the mutual hostility, Piazza and Martinez both said theydid not have previous problems with each other.
Both said they hadfew encounters off the field when they were teammates.Martinez conceded he has thrown at hitters, but only after oneof his teammates, as Piazza used to be, was already hit.Essentially, that is what Piazza was hinting at on Friday, eventhough no Red Sox were hit and it was the first game of the seasonbetween the New York and Boston.Piazza was surprised that Martinez used profanities andsurprised that Martinez sounded so defensive Sunday.
The catcherthen tweaked Martinez a final time before the two players and thetwo teams part for the rest of the regular season.From Tibetan Buddhists to Roman Catholics to evangelicalChristians, a broad array of religious leaders is urging PresidentClinton to use his summit meeting later this month in Beijing topress the Chinese government to end the repression of religiousbelievers there.Religious persecution abroad has increasingly become a majorcause of concern among members of the U.S. clergy, many of whom saythat China is one of the most consistent violators of religiousfreedom.
Now rights advocates long concerned about the Chineseoccupation of Tibet have joined forces with Christian clergypushing for more freedom for Chinese churchgoers.More than 200 U.S. religious leaders have signed a letter to thepresident asking him to put pressure on the Chinese government torelease all religious prisoners, to rescind decrees forcingChristian churches to register with the government, and to opennegotiations about the future of Tibet with the Dalai Lama, theTibetan Buddhists' exiled leader.The letter, drafted by the Center for Jewish and ChristianValues in Washington, is signed by people whose names rarely appearon the same page.
They include two Roman Catholic cardinals andmore than a dozen bishops, a spokesman for the Church ofScientology, Reform and Orthodox rabbis, evangelical Christianministers and broadcasters, Muslims, Tibetan Buddhists, and a widerange of other religious leaders.For most of the last decade, Cisco Systems Inc. has beensteamrolling competitors in data networking.
Its routers andswitches dominate the Internet and corporate networks that try toget disparate sorts of computers to talk to each other.It holds a 70 percent market share in routers and relatedproducts, and the company's $79.3 billion value in the stock marketis more than four times the combined stock market value of its mainrivals: 3Com Corp., Bay Networks Inc. and Cabletron Systems Inc.But lately, Cisco is on a collision course with a set of new,much bigger competitors.
Companies that have made their livelihoodsselling gear to the telephone industries are intent on moving intoCisco's market.These companies contend that their long experience in runningdedicated-circuit voice networks gives them an edge over Cisco,which has specialized in sending data as packets distributed over avariety of pathways between routers, the traffic controllers of theInternet.The most prominent of these new rivals are Lucent Technologies,the spinoff of ATT Corp. that includes Bell Labs, and NorthernTelecom of Canada, Lucent's chief competitor in the supply ofconventional switches and other equipment for telephone networks.Not only do they have the heft Lucent has three times theannual revenue of Cisco but they also have the motivation.
Theyrealize that the market for the equipment they have been selling,which relies on setting up dedicated paths, or circuits, for eachcommunication, is quickly becoming doomed.In the future, this dedicated-circuit approach, known as circuitswitching, seems destined to be replaced by more efficient andeconomical packet-switching technology on which the Internet (andCisco's business) is based.To overcome Cisco's leadership in data networking, Lucent andNorthern Telecom will be counting on their ability to transfer thecharacteristics of voice network technology to data networks.Yet Lucent and Nortel are still very much newcomers.
Only thismonth will Lucent begin testing its first billion-bits-a-secondpacket switch based on Internet protocols, which could become atrue competitor to Cisco's most advanced gear.Northern Telecom, for its part, derived only $785 million of its$15.4 billion in revenue last year from data networking; it has along way to go to be on an equal footing with Cisco.But then, in this transition from the old world architecture ofcircuit switching to the new world of packet switching, it is notaltogether certain that Cisco plans to slug it out with Nortel andLucent.Cisco's chairman, John Chambers reportedly broke off intensivetalks with Lucent about some sort of partnership because the twocompanies' product lines had begun to overlap too closely.
Now, heis said to be bent on concluding an alliance with Nortel, whichcould take advantage of its strengths in sales and service in thetelephone industry.But the impulse to form new data networking alliances is notCisco's alone.
Last week, the data-switch maker Tellabs announcedplans to acquire Ciena Corp., a high-flying supplier of a newtechnology that vastly expands the capacity of fiber backbones, for$7.5 billion.And a day later, another digital switch maker, DSCCommunications, agreed to be acquired for $4.4 billion in stock byAlcatel Alsthom of France a telecommunications equipment giantthat wants to expand its American presence.So Cisco may find it increasingly difficult to steamroll thecompetition.
Last week, when Sprint announced plans for itsnational network to evolve from circuit switching to packetswitching, attention centered on the fact that the key new piecesof equipment for chopping voice, video and other data intofixed-size packets would come from Cisco, and not from atelecommunications vendor like Lucent.But Cisco's gear, when ready, will only be found on the edge ofthis new- era network.
At its core will be data switches from theJapanese giant NEC and, oh yes, from Nortel.
NEW YORK The owner of a Brooklyn sweater factory who hadaccused Liz Claiborne and the United States' leadinggarment-industry union of conspiring to destroy his business hasdied of a heart attack at his home in Monsey, according to hislawyers.Shraga Newhouse, 50 years old and the father of 10 children, wasthe president and majority stockholder of Mademoiselle Knitwear.The company filed a $90 million lawsuit last month against LizClaiborne and the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and TextileEmployees, known as Unite.The lawsuit contended that Claiborne had fraudulently schemed toavoid a commitment to provide work to the Brooklyn company, whichfiled for bankruptcy when Claiborne's orders stopped.The lawsuit also contended that the union had participated inthat scheme by abandoning an arbitration claim it had filed againstClaiborne on behalf of Mademoiselle's workers; in exchange,Mademoiselle said, the union got a new collective bargainingagreement that required Claiborne to pay the union a minimum of $13million.A team of Rutgers University researchers hired by the New Jerseygovernment to examine the effects of the state's new welfare policyfound that it has contributed to an increase in abortions, but thestate has rejected the findings, and asked for revisions of thereport.In a December report, commissioned by the state Department ofHuman Services and the federal Department of Health and HumanServices and obtained by The New York Times, the Rutgersresearchers said the welfare overhaul provision known as the familycap, which was enacted in 1992 and cuts off extra benefits fromwelfare recipients who have additional children, has caused somewomen to abort their pregnancies.Welfare recipients generally have abortions at a higher ratethan other women: In New Jersey, in the quarter ending December1991, the abortion rate for the welfare population was 27 per 1,000compared with 4 per 1,000 for all New Jersey women of child-bearingage.
And although the abortion rate in New Jersey, and nationwide,declined between 1991 and 1996, the abortion rate among NewJersey's welfare recipients rose during the same period.
By 1996,the Rutgers report found, the gap had widened further, with 29abortions per 1,000 women receiving welfare, compared with 3 per1,000 women in the general population.But the state has not accepted those findings, calling thereport a draft that needs substantial revision.In a May 14 letter to the research team, the Department of HumanServices said the document should be labeled a draft, criticizedthe methodology and asked for a reworking that would explain allthe difficulties of determining whether it was the welfare policythat had caused the increase in abortions.
The letter alsoquestioned the validity of studying the behavior of the welfarepopulation before and after the law changed, since the changesthemselves may have altered that population, causing somerecipients to get off welfare, and other people to avoid it.Jacqueline Tencza, a spokeswoman for the state Department ofHuman Services, denied that interpretation.
Rather, she said, thestate is committed to understanding what effects the family cap hashad, and is concerned about the release of draft findings based ona methodology that the state says is flawed.The question of how welfare recipients' reproductive decisionsare affected by a family cap, removing any financial incentive tohave more children, has been one of the most hotly argued issues inthe debate over welfare.Some conservatives have argued that family caps help discouragewelfare recipients from having more babies than they can support,and prevent long-term welfare dependency.
But in an unusualpolitical alliance, the Catholic Church and conservative Christiangroups joined with advocates for the poor to argue against familycaps, on the ground that they would encourage abortion and increasechild poverty by forcing welfare families to stretch their meagerbenefits too far.New Jersey's family cap went into effect in 1993, under afederal waiver allowing the state to conduct welfare experiments.Two years later, the federal welfare overhaul bill opened the wayfor any state to adopt such a policy, and currently family caps arein effect in 20 other states.Last year, Ms. Davis' group, along with the American CivilLiberties Union of New Jersey and Gibbons Del Deo, a New Jersey lawfirm, filed suit charging that the family cap violated the stateconstitution by interfering with women's reproductive rights andtreated children differently depending on their birth status.In late February, in the course of preparing a summary judgmentmotion in the case, Ms. Davis said, the lawyers asked the statewhether the final report from Rutgers, which had been longscheduled for release in December, was available.A lawyer in the attorney general's office gave them a copy ofthe December report, which they shared with representatives of theCatholic Church and others who oppose the family cap at a May 12meeting.
Ms. Davis said the lawyers challenging the cap had alsoasked for, and been granted, permission to talk to the Rutgersresearchers.But, she said, on May 14 the same day the department's letterwent out to the researchers the attorney general's office calledto say that the report was only a draft and to withdraw permissionto talk to the researchers.Ms.
Tencza said there were no political machinations involved:Discussions of the methodology had gone on since the report wasfiled, she said, and the May 14 letter only reflected continuingdiscussions.
And she said that the lawyer for the attorneygeneral's office who gave out the report was simply unaware that itwas a draft.The letter specifically questioned the researchers' use oftrends in abortion and birth rates to estimate what those ratesmight have been without the welfare changes, and the suggestionthat the welfare changes may have caused the difference.
And itsaid that the researchers need not redo the study, but shouldsubmit a revised version in three weeks, making clear thedifficulties of determining causality.Michael Camasso, the lead researcher on the $1 millionevaluation project, declined to discuss the specifics of theDecember report or the re-working now under way.The December report is not the first part of the family-capresearch to have its release delayed.
In an interim report,completed in 1996, the same Rutgers team found that while birthrates among New Jersey welfare recipients had declined by more than20 percent since the family cap law went into effect, the declinewas the same among those who forfeited extra benefits as among acontrol group of women who were allowed to keep extra benefits fortheir newborns.
That report was released more than a year later,only when the lawyers challenging the policy obtained it from thefederal government under a Freedom of Information Act request.NEW YORK In an ambitious and controversial effort to increasethe number of welfare recipients participating in New York City'sworkfare program, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani will soon begin requiringphysically and mentally disabled mothers to work for their welfarechecks.The new policy began quietly this weekend when city officialsordered about 800 disabled women to report to welfare offices forscreening into the new 20-hour-a-week workfare program.The women, who showed up at city offices clutching plastic pillbottles and crumpled medical forms on Saturday, had already beenexamined by city doctors who classified them as permanently ortemporarily unemployable since they suffer from chronic seizures,mental illness, severe arthritis and other ailments.But under the new rules, the mothers will be required to work injobs tailored to their specific impairments by nonprofit groupsaccustomed to working with the disabled, including GoodwillIndustries of Greater New York.
Women who cannot walk, forinstance, might type or stuff envelopes.
Only those women withdisabilities severe enough to qualify for federal disabilitybenefits will be exempt.City officials say the old system, which allowed the disabled tostay home until city doctors certified that they could work, deniedjob training, work experience and career counseling to people whodesperately needed those services.State officials, who will help finance and oversee the newprogram, say about 12,000 disabled mothers will participate inworkfare initially, with the first group starting in two months.The remaining 21,000 disabled welfare mothers may follow if theprogram works well, city officials say.But the shift in policy, which comes five months after Giulianivowed to move virtually all of the city's welfare recipients intoworkfare jobs, was quickly condemned by advocates for the poor, whosaid it violates state law and endangers the lives of the sickestand most vulnerable New Yorkers.The clash between advocates and city officials over the issuemarks only the beginning of a contentious debate that will likelyland in civil court, and one that already swirls across much of thenation as states like Florida, Oregon and Wisconsin push disabledpeople on public assistance into the workplace.Under federal law, mothers on public assistance can receivewelfare checks for only five years, regardless of whether they aredisabled or not.
State officials may exempt 20 percent of theirwelfare mothers from the time limit, but many are still pushing asmany women into work as they can, fearful that more than 20 percentwill still need benefits when the deadline hits.In New York City, where welfare officials have been sued forassigning people with less serious medical ailments to workfarejobs that threaten their health, advocates for the poor found thenew policy particularly alarming.Last month, a state judge ordered the city to create a processthat would allow welfare recipients to challenge work assignmentsfor health and safety reasons.
But that process would apply towelfare recipients without severe medical problems, workers withasthma who can answer telephones but cannot scrub dusty garages,for instance.
This group is classified as employable, but withlimitations.The city's new policy is directed toward a group that citydoctors say are actually unable to work, and advocates say it willbe impossible to find suitable work for this group.
About 4,000welfare mothers have been deemed permanently unemployable by thecity's medical contractor, Health Services Systems.
About 30,000have been classified as temporarily unemployable, meaning theycannot work for three to six months.They are young women like Daisy Rivera, 28, who was deemedpermanently unemployable because she suffers from severe asthma andweighs 400 pounds.
They are older women like Evelyn Valle, 39, whohobbled to the welfare office, leaning hard on a scratched woodencane because of the arthritis in her hip.
Or like Aglaee Muniz, 57,who takes medication for severe depression and diabetes and wasalso classified as permanently unable to work.City officials say the new program has been carefully planned tomeet the needs of this population, which was unable to participatein the traditional workfare program along with the 32,000 currentparticipants.
The work sites will be chosen by officials at fourgroups, Goodwill Industries, the Brooklyn Bureau of CommunityService, the National Center for Disability Services and theFederation Employment and Guidance Service, who will safeguard thehealth and safety of the new workers.All told, the groups must place at least 228 mothers inunsubsidized jobs for at least 90 days by March 1999.On Saturday, caseworkers for the four groups used a two-pagequestionnaire to screen hundreds of mothers, who were eithertemporarily disabled or permanently disabled women who had beendenied federal disability benefits.Those with serious disabilities were given an appointment for amore complete evaluation, which will be reviewed by the StateOffice of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals WithDisabilities.
Most of those women will ultimately work 20 hours aweek for three months, and 35 hours a week after that, whilereceiving career counseling, job search training and otherservices.
Twenty other New York counties, including Westchester andOnondaga, also received state financing for similar programs.Those welfare recipients who are determined to lack seriousdisabilities will be re-examined by city doctors and may eventuallyend up in the traditional workfare program, although they canappeal that decision, city officials said.
And those with the mostsevere medical problems will be told to apply for federaldisability benefits.No one knows how smoothly the new process will work.
Advocatesfor the poor in Wisconsin, which has also eliminated broad workexemptions for the disabled, said they have not encounteredwidespread problems.
Jason Turner, the recently appointed chief ofNew York City's welfare agency, was the architect of that state'swelfare program.But the sheer size of New York City's welfare population makesthe job infinitely more complex.
Wisconsin has only about 9,000adults on public assistance statewide, while New York City hasabout 200,000 mothers on welfare, including the 33,000 disabledwomen.Hundreds of those women filled the waiting rooms of the city'swelfare offices on Saturday, sitting on hard, plastic chairs asthey thumbed through plastic bags and time-worn envelopes for theirmedical records.
Most seemed stunned to learn that they were goingto work after city doctors had told them that they could not.Excuse David Cone if, deep down, he never saw the humor in hisrecent run-in with an impish Jack Russell terrier with a seriousoverbite.Confidence, not comedy, is what counts, especially at this pointin the career of a veteran pitcher.When you're 35, with more great years behind you than ahead ofyou, even a 7-1 record doesn't always bring peace.
Losing astarting assignment because of a freak injury certainly doesn't,not when every tweak and tinge increasingly serves as a reminder ofone's mortality.So don't assume that the bite that took a chunk out of Cone'sindex finger and out of the Yankees' rotation, and cost Cone astart last Tuesday, was in any way humorous to him.
Not when hisreality includes mandatory pitch counts and salary incentives tiedto innings totals that are no longer sure things.The setback put Cone in a fury.
And the only way to assuage thatfury, as well as stem the torrent of bad jokes, was to pitch well.Sunday the Florida Marlins were the unwitting victims of thatresolve, learning that the pedigree of the pitcher, not the dog,was what truly counted.
Cone roared back to the forefront of theYankees' impressive rotation, pitching a 14-strikeout complete gameand not only beating the Marlins, 4-1, but beating a pack of hisown demons.Thus his intense lobbying after the eighth inning, the only onein which the Marlins managed a run.
The overmatched youngsters fromthe decimated World Series champions had broken through when Coneissued a two-out walk to second baseman Craig Counsell, then arun-scoring double to Florida's burgeoning gem, Todd Dunwoody.The double, which deeply disappointed Cone, also drove him.
Heall but begged for the right to pitch the ninth inning.
Torre, histeam about to go 31 games over .500, did not need that muchconvincing.
The Yankees had a three-run lead, Cone had shown thenecessary heart, as always, and Torre did not hesitate in showingloyalty.Such is the nature of even the most competent and proven.
They,too, need to be convinced.
Especially when the career path is aspocked as Cone's has been in recent years.
His injuries seem asplentiful as they are peculiar.
Surgeries were performed on thepitcher's shoulder to correct an aneurysm in 1996 and to clean outthe debris caused by wear and tear in '97.Cone sought to put more serious issues to bed as well Sunday.For the relentless setbacks of the last few years have preventedCone from regaining his Cy Young-caliber touch.
That had causedmore doubts than one little nip could.
This Cone knows; histeammates know it, too.It is a bit disconcerting to hear a pitcher talk about needingthe boost of confidence after watching him master a team, even oneso flailing as the Marlins, losers of 11 straight.And there he was, clinging to his first complete-game victorysince May 1996 as if it were a life preserver, needing a boost ofconfidence only he could provide for himself.DETROIT Mixing his usual candor with a little diplomacy, coachRon Wilson of the Washington Capitals was evaluating how his teamcame to find itself in the Stanley Cup finals against the defendingchampion, Detroit.Along with their history of eliminating the Washington team, theFlyers, Devils and Penguins were the top three seeded teams in theEastern Conference.
Instead of playing any of them, thefourth-seeded Capitals faced Boston, Ottawa and Buffalo.Now, beginning here Tuesday night in Joe Louis Arena, theCapitals meet the Western Conference champion Detroit Red Wings,who will be making their third appearance in four seasons in thechampionship round.
With the possible exception of the goalieposition, the Red Wings seem to match up stronger than the Capitalsin talent and depth.A four-game sweep would continue a trend.
Since the New YorkRangers needed seven games to eliminate the Vancouver Canucks inthe 1994 finals, the next three championships have been four-gameminimums: the Devils over the Wings in 1995, Colorado over Floridain 1996 and the Wings over the Flyers in 1997.Should this season's final go seven games, the last would be onJune 23, after the official start of summer.
Except for thelockout-delayed season that ended on June 24, 1995, no Stanley Cupfinal has ended later than June 14.
Among the reasons for this longseason are the 16-day Olympic break in February, the four-dayAll-Star Game break in January and the extra off days during theplayoffs to accommodate television.
These and other factors haveresulted in dwindling ratings, poor ice and fan apathy in even someof hockey's bedrock cities.There is no lack of interest here.
Cars, buildings and statuesare decorated in the red and white of the home team.
Not since the1950s have Detroiters enjoyed as much hockey success as the Wingshave had under coach Scotty Bowman, who took over in 1993.The team is experienced and balanced with skilled scorers anddiligent checkers.
In eliminating the regular-season championDallas Stars in six games in Round 3, the Red Wings survived a big,mean team that tried to intimidate them.The Capitals are not as nasty, although the churlish threesomeof Dale Hunter, Chris Simon and Craig Berube provides a hint of theCrash Line element that proved disconcerting to the Wings when theywere swept by the Devils three years ago.The big hitter of the Capitals defense is Mark Tinordi, who hashad a few days to recover from the leg injury that slowed him atthe end of the previous round.
The eternal Esa Tikkanen, a forwardwho seems to show up with different playoff contenders every year,also might help.Tikkanen is especially valuable as a shadow checker, as he wasin the second round against Ottawa's Aleksei Yashin.
He might coverDetroit's Sergei Fedorov, who leads the league in post-season goalswith nine.The Capitals get much of their offense from two lines: theCollegians and the Europeans.
The collegians are Adam Oates, JoeJuneau and Brian Bellows.
Both Oates and Juneau attended RensselaerPolytechnic Institute, although Bellows is not a college man.
TheEuropeans are Peter Bondra, Andrei Nikolishin and Richard Zednik.Oates leads his team in playoff points with 14.
A former RedWing, Oates is one of the league's most creative passers.
The bestattacker of the defense is Sergei Gonchar, who has 7 goals in thetournament.In goal, Washington's Olaf Kolzig has the best goals-againstaverage: 1.69 a game.
Detroit's goalie, Chris Osgood, is capable ofshutting out a team and also capable of squandering a lead or a tieon a wishful shot from center ice.
At this level, all goalies arecapable of shutouts, especially those who play for great teams.
Butfew give up two goals from center ice in the same spring.
AndOsgood's clearing passes are frequently intercepted.If Detroit has a weak link, it is Osgood, but his supportingcast is too strong to fail as a group.
Nicklas Lidstrom leads theattacking defensemen.
Slava Fetisov, Larry Murphy, Bob Rouse andJamie Macoun fill out an aging but steady blue-line crew.
Among thebest two-way wing men, Darren McCarty and Martin Lapointe hit firstand score second.At the high end, Fedorov is the most skilled, although SteveYzerman leads the team in points with 20.
Fedorov, Yzerman and IgorLarionov are among the sport's most complete centers.Should the Wings win the Cup it would be Bowman's eighth, tyinghim with his mentor, Toe Blake.
Absent a monumental upset, it willbe rings for the Wings.
ELMONT, N.Y. For the second year in a row, the business ofhorse racing was saved by, of all things, a horse and a race.
Notby a marketing plan or an advertising campaign or a creativedepartment.The horse was Real Quiet, the race was the Belmont Stakes, theplot was high drama: would Real Quiet, winner of the Kentucky Derbyand the Preakness, also win the Belmont Stakes and become the 12thhorse in history to win the Triple Crown?
Or would he become the14th horse to lose on the lip of history?To watch the drama unfold, a crowd of 80,162 went to BelmontPark on a brilliantly sunny afternoon.
It was the second largestcrowd to watch a race at Belmont and the largest in 27 years, sinceCanonero II tried (and failed) to complete his Triple Crown sweepbefore 82,694.
And the multitudes on Saturday saw a classic race:Real Quiet opening a four-length lead in the homestretch but, withhis Triple Crown within reach, struggling to withstand hisweariness and his challenger, Victory Gallop, who streaked upalongside him for one more duel.You could not have scripted it any better.
In the KentuckyDerby, it was Real Quiet by half a length over Victory Gallop.
Inthe Preakness, by 2\ lengths.
And now, it was Victory Gallopreversing recent history and winning the Belmont by one bob of thehead.Smith was there Saturday with the 80,162 fans who saw the raceof their lives.
They even bet large amounts of money: $9.3 millionat Belmont Park, the second largest amount ever recorded there, and$55 million from all sources, far and near, the most since lastyear's Belmont Stakes.This is far-fetched and, worse, it takes racing on the low roadto salvation.
Maybe there is no high road to reach gamblers, butmaybe that's questionable, too.
Why make your pitch to commongamblers when you're trying to rescue a sport from extinction?Nobody sensed the true meaning of Belmont Day better than JamesBond, the trainer of Raffie's Majesty, who finished fifth while thestars of the cast were staging their memorable duel.Bob Baffert, the trainer of Silver Charm last year and RealQuiet this year, both dramatic Triple Crown losers, defines theproduct correctly.
For all the glory of his Triple Crown classics,he still hasn't won in eight starts on New York tracks.
But heinsists that's the nature of the game.Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, fractured his ankleplaying pick-up basketball last week and had to tend his horse oncrutches.
He even enlisted a superstar trainer, Bill Mott, tosaddle Victory Gallop in the paddock for the Belmont, so give Mottan assist.
Walden doesn't miss the point, either.But they had better hurry.
In the last six months, racing haslost two of its best tracks: Arlington Park in Chicago and AtlanticCity.
Can slot machines be far behind?Maybe you can't count on the enormous pull of the Belmont Stakesto solve all your problems day by day.
But how can you not startwith those 80,162 fans, the national television audience and thosetwo brave horses who carried the racing business into the minds andwallets of America?In the banking industry's latest megamerger, Norwest Corp. ofMinneapolis and Wells Fargo Co. of San Francisco plan to joinforces and may announce the $34 billion deal as early as Monday,according to people close to both companies.Although the transaction is structured as a so-called merger ofequals, Norwest's chief executive, Richard Kovacevich, will run thecombined company as chief executive while Wells' chief executive,Paul Hazen, will relinquish that post.The new bank will be based in San Francisco and retain the WellsFargo name.
With combined assets of $185 billion, it will rank asthe sixth-largest bank in the United States if all other bankmergers announced this year are completed.The logic of the merger follows a now familiar pattern: Manybanks, stuck in an industry with little revenue growth andheightened competition from brokerage firms, mutual funds andcredit-card companies, see size as a solution to their woes.Bulking up, banks believe, will enable them to become moreprofitable by dominating certain markets and enjoying greatereconomies of scale.It is the latest in a string of bank-related blockbusters thisyear that have surprised Wall Street, including the mergers ofCiticorp and Travelers Group, BankAmerica Corp. and NationsbankCorp.
and First Chicago NBD and Banc One Corp.Kovacevich, considered to be one of the most disciplined andtalented executives in banking, said in a recent interview that hefelt no need to merge with another bank and that he found therecent prices being paid for banks to be exorbitant.On the other hand, Kovacevich has said he would buy another bankif the price was right, and in this case it apparently was.
Norwestwill exchange about 10 shares for each Wells share, representing apremium of only about 10 percent to Wells' closing stock price onFriday.Big Wells investors, such as Warren Buffett, were apparentlywilling to accept a slim takeover premium based on the combinedcompany's prospects.
As of last December, Buffett owned 7.87percent of the company.Wells would have been unthinkable as a takeover target a fewyears ago, when it emerged as the victor in a hotly contestedbattle for First Interstate Corp. of Los Angeles, but Wells botchedthe integration of the two banks.
That cost Wells precious profitsand customers, and brought Hazen, long considered a skilledmanager, some unaccustomed criticism from analysts and Wall Street.And it left Wells vulnerable.Last Friday, Wells Fargo's shares rose 3 percent, or $10.75, to$363.25, on optimism that profit growth will accelerate as the bankbuilds revenue with little increase in expenses, along withspeculation that Wells Fargo might be in talks.Like most Triple Crown hopefuls who fail in the Belmont Stakes,Real Quiet was undone by the unusual length of the race hereSaturday, losing a four-length lead in the final furlong to benosed out by Victory Gallop.If the Belmont were a mile and a quarter, a Triple Crownwouldn't be such a rarity.Real Quiet and jockey Kent Desormeaux led the field into thehomestretch but hit the marathoners' wall and staggered through a26.34-second final quarter.
Of the 14 horses who lost Triple Crownsin the Belmont, nine had a final split slower than 26 seconds.Of the 10 horses who completed Triple Crowns in the Belmontsince the race went to 1{ miles, eight went 26 seconds or faster.There's the irony of the Belmont: The defining moment of thesehorses' careers, the difference between winning and losing a$5-million Triple Crown bonus, is a race at a distance completelyout of line with the rest of the U.S. stakes schedule.Baffert and Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, will scanthat schedule for their colts' next starts, with a rematch of theKentucky Derby, Preakness and Belmont quinella horses apossibility.Walden said he's looking at the $1 million Haskell Invitationalfor 3-year-olds at Monmouth Park (N.J.) on Aug. 9, and VictoryGallop could go on to the $750,000 Travers for 3-year-olds atSaratoga in upstate New York on Aug. 29.Baffert, who isn't much for long-range planning, said Real Quietcould go to the Travers or face older horses for the first time inthe Pacific Classic at Del Mar on Aug. 15.
Three-year-old Best Palwon the $1-million race in 1991.The trainer said Real Quiet could even go in the $500,000 SwapsStakes at Hollywood Park on July 19.More likely, Real Quiet will go to the Travers and Baffert willrun 4-year-old Silver Charm in the Pacific Classic.
Silver Charm isat Churchill Downs training for the $750,000 Stephen FosterHandicap on Sunday.The long-awaited meeting of Silver Charm and Skip Away couldcome in the Pacific Classic.
First, Skip Away is aiming for the $1million Hollywood Gold Cup against Gentlemen on June 28.Meanwhile, Baffert said he hasn't chosen a next race for IndianCharlie, the Santa Anita Derby winner who ran third in the KentuckyDerby.Real Quiet flew out of New York Sunday morning and will be atChurchill, Baffert said, probably until the season ends there June28.
Then he will go home to California.The Triple Crown vanished Saturday just the way history said itmight.
Real Quiet didn't lose by a nose, he lost by a quarter-mile.ALBANY, N.Y.
The high cost of auto insurance, an issue thatnearly cost Gov.
Christie Whitman of New Jersey her job last year,appears on the verge of becoming a major theme in New York'sgubernatorial campaign, with Democrats blaming Gov.
George Patakifor high rates.Now that New Jersey has mandated a 15 percent cut in rates, NewYork is about to overtake its neighbor as the state with thenation's highest auto insurance premiums, having risen from sixthplace since 1993.
Some Democratic strategists say that New York'sdubious new ranking could help give the issue the same politicalpotency here that it proved to have last year in New Jersey.All four Democratic candidates for governor have recently begunattacking Pataki, a Republican, over auto insurance prices, and thetwo front-runners in the polls, Peter Vallone, the New York CityCouncil speaker, and Lt. Gov.
Betsy McCaughey Ross, plan to releasewithin the next few days their own plans for lowering rates.Insurance companies make for easy political targets, as attackson health insurers across the country have shown.
For the Democratsin New York, taking on auto insurers has the added benefit ofplaying into their claims that Pataki has been too cozy with bigbusiness.But a report released last week by the majority Democrats in thestate Assembly gave fresh ammunition to the challengers.
It saysthat during the 1990s, rates and insurance company profits haverisen much faster in New York than in the nation as a whole, and itblames Pataki, whose administration has approved each rateincrease.The average auto insurance policy in New York cost $705 in 1990.It rose under Gov.
Mario Cuomo, a Democrat, to $870 in 1994, theyear Pataki was elected.
And it continued to climb under the newgovernor, to $960 in 1996, up 36 percent in six years.
The averagerate dropped last year to $954, and appears headed for anothersmall decline this year.Neil D. Levin, who was appointed state insurance superintendentby Pataki, responded to the report by saying that the competitiveforces of the market should be allowed to determine rates.The Assembly Democrats said that in the two weeks remaining inthis year's legislative session they would seek passage of severallaws that they said would cut rates by more than 21 percent, likeantifraud measures, the appointment of a consumer advocate tocontest proposed rate increases, and the creation of a toll-freenumber to help customers comparison-shop among insurers.The Democrats have considerable leverage because some autoinsurance laws that the governor and the industry favor are set toexpire this summer, and the Democrats could withhold renewal ofthose laws unless their proposals are enacted.Grannis said the Assembly would not try to legislate a specificrate reduction, as New Jersey lawmakers have, for fear of roilingwhat is now a fairly stable, profitable market.
Some insurers haveabandoned the New Jersey market, contending that it is toodifficult to make a profit there.In last year's New Jersey race, state Sen. James McGreevey, aDemocrat, found a vast untapped well of resentment over the state'shigh rates.
He exploited it so well against Whitman, a Republicanto whom Pataki is often compared, that despite being little-knownwhen the campaign began, he narrowly missed defeating her inNovember.CLIFFSIDE PARK, N.J.
The initial shock has worn off, aschoolteacher named Joung Pyo Jyoung said Sunday, but she stillmarvels at how Kim Dae Jung, the longtime dissident, came to beelected president of South Korea, her homeland.Ms.
Jyoung was hardly the only one here to express amazement ata political odyssey that can be compared to the ultimate triumphsof Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Vaclav Havel of the CzechRepublic and other champions of lost causes.Successive South Korean dictators tried to have Kim killed,coming extremely close more than once.
In 1980, the military regimethen in charge sentenced him to the gallows, but chose instead tosend him into exile in the United States.
Even after he returnedhome in 1985, and after South Korea then nurtured a fledglingdemocracy, he seemed destined to spend the rest of his years inpermanent opposition.But there he was Sunday, his country's leader since February,walking triumphantly into the banquet hall with a slight limp, thelegacy of one of those assassination attempts.A Roman Catholic, he told of how after his election he hadcalled on Cardinal Stephen Kim Sou Hwan, South Korea's RomanCatholic prelate.
The cardinal, he said, had observed that hiselection should stand as a model to young Koreans of howperseverance can lead to success.Kim, 74, seemed to enjoy wading through the crowd and shakinghands with the Korean-Americans, many of whom had left South Korea20 or 30 years ago but still had deep emotional and economic tiesto their homeland.He was applauded warmly and often by the guests for the mostpart business people, academics and clergy who came from New YorkCity or from this part of Bergen County where thousands ofKorean-Americans have settled.
He was also ardently praised as afighter for democracy by Sen. Robert Torricelli of New Jersey.But there was an underlying restraint.
It was a sharp contrastto the emotional outbursts that Kim, a gifted speaker, is capableof producing.Some who came to the Palisadium banquet hall, on the HudsonRiver, said they would probably not have voted for him if they hadhad the chance.
They were not sure at first, they said, that he wasthe right person to guide the country through its most seriousfinancial crisis in decades.
Like millions of South Koreans, theyhad long heard military-dominated governments denounce Kim as anirresponsible populist.But now, in his fourth month in office, he seems to have wonover even the skeptics.
And if the applause was not boisterous, itwas nonetheless ample.
The most frequently expressed opinion wasthat Kim had thus far handled the crisis well.Kim arrived on Saturday and stayed overnight at theIntercontinental Hotel in New York under tight security, which wasequally intense in Cliffside Park.
In the morning, he attended Massat St. Patrick's Cathedral, and met with Cardinal John O'Connorafterward.On Sunday evening, he was honored at the Metropolitan Museum ofArt in New York, where he helped dedicate a new gallery of Koreanart.
On Monday, Kim is scheduled to visit the New York StockExchange, where he can be counted on to underline a likely theme ofthis visit: reassurance to foreign investors.
After New York, hegoes to Washington for meetings with President Clinton and a speechto Congress, before journeying on to Los Angeles.CHICAGO Indulge me while I clear out the Belmont Stakesresidue, but I do not see Michael Jordan and the Bulls fading inthe homestretch with another Triple Crown now in sight.First of all, the trailer has to believe it has the ability tocatch up, but from the sight of the Utah Jazz in the second halfhere Sunday night, what we appear to have on our hands is apre-race favorite running without faith.The Jazz didn't just quit Game 3 of the National BasketballAssociation finals.
They were dismissed from it.
The only mail thatwas delivered was the game itself, post-marked by the Jazz, SaltLake City.
Just when people were forecasting photo finishes betweenteams rated evenly matched, the Bulls charged ahead late in thefirst half and blew on like a tropical storm in a 96-54 slaughterthat gave them a 2-1 series lead.The Jazz could have been suffering the effects of having theirgrand design for this series ruined by their Game 2 loss Fridaynight at home.
All the more reason why this team needed to be rightback in the Bulls' faces Sunday night.
They went face down on theUnited Center floor instead, losing the most lopsided finals gameever, scoring the fewest points since the shot clock rule andfueling the notion that, deep down, they don't believe they canbeat the Bulls.Same shots he always takes, the Jazz said.
Same ones he alwaysmakes.
The problem with that rationale is that it fails toacknowledge the psychological component of trying to wrest thecrown off Jordan's head.
This is not the typical opponent.
This isnot the customary setting.
This is not the ordinary challenge, andthat not only goes for Malone but the entire Utah team.In the case of its best player, from the time Malone has beenplaying basketball on the national level, he has been thequintessential outsider.
First he was that muscular kid from littleLouisiana Tech, a school best known for its women's teams.
For muchof his professional career, he has been looked at by many of hispeers as the Brother From Another Planet.
The African-Americansuperstar who plays in the whitest of all NBA markets, thedown-home Louisiana guy who drives bikes and trucks, not RangeRovers and Mercedes.Mailman Malone stands alone, unless he's communing with JohnStockton on the pick-and-roll.
That's been his message, and he hasdelivered his share of politically incorrect diatribes, on subjectsranging from Magic Johnson's popular return in 1992 (he thought itwasn't a good idea) to the league's formerly hailed drug policy (hethought it wasn't getting the job done).
But these last twosprings, finally making it to the finals, Malone has found himselfface-to-face with the ultimate establishment icon.
It has becomeimmeasurably difficult to have his say in the face of truegreatness.Maybe they have been the same shots, or maybe they have beenjust a step or two deeper, or maybe he's been rushing to take thequick shot because he knows the Bulls' suffocating EasternConference defense will not give him one that's better.
PatrickEwing could tell Malone how the ball feels so much more slipperywhen the Bulls are swarming, the way they were Sunday night.Malone was determined to make a statement Sunday night, andstarted to by connecting on his first six shots, remembering thereis nothing mystical about Luc Longley's slow-footed defense.
Malonescored 12 first-quarter points, but when he looked up at thescoreboard, the Jazz had 14 and were trailing by three.This raised another sobering issue: the Bulls' ability tocontrol Stockton's dribble penetration with their long-limbeddefenders.
Stockton is not as quick as he used to be, and thisbecomes much more noticeable against a defensive-minded EasternConference team than it does against anyone out West.Over the last six minutes of the second quarter, the Jazz'soffense devolved into the Knicks'.
Malone, quiet after DennisRodman relieved Longley, ran over Scottie Pippen on the break.Bryon Russell turned a simple and uncontested inbounds pass toStockton into a backcourt violation.
Stockton lost the ball deep inthe lane.
Malone traveled in the post, then threw up an air ball inthe lane.Get the picture?
The Bulls did.
Jordan and Toni Kukocimmediately began abusing their men off the dribble.
When Kukocpenetrates the way he did Sunday night, forget it, Chicago'ssportswriters may as well begin the campaign to keep this grouptogether until 2010.
Jordan and the 6-foot-11-inch Kukoc in thelane with the ball are a different story than the frail Hornacekand Stockton.How bad did it get for Malone and Utah?
He was called twice byHue Hollins for charging on the break against Hollins' favoriteplayer, Pippen.
The Bulls cruised into halftime with a 49-31 lead,by far the largest lead in the series.
The second half, from theshellshocked perception of Jerry Sloan, bordered on disgrace.Uncontested Chicago dunks.
Jordan and Pippen resting on the benchwith impish smiles that gave way to raucous laughter.The Bulls were cruising, pulling ahead in the finals in thebackstretch.
This is a team that has never been caught from behind.NEW YORK She has been haunted by many things these last fewdays.
The image of a woman pleading for her life, so that her fivechildren would not be left motherless.
The photograph of a mantwisted under a bar stool, unsuccessfully trying to shield himselffrom a robber's bullet.
The smirk on the lips of Darrel K. Harrisas witnesses identified him as the killer of three people at aBrooklyn social club Club Happiness.And there was another picture, a snapshot from the life of the49-year-old woman, a juror in Harris' trial, who spoke briefly andreluctantly Sunday on the condition that her name not be used.She recalled a time when she had been sick, near death, andterrified of leaving her teen-age son behind.
So she put herself inthe shoes of the woman, Evelyn Davis, who had begged Harris not tokill her.
He stabbed her in the back, because he had used up hisbullets.The juror said that when she began deliberating Harris' fatefour days ago, more than half the panel of five men and seven womenin State Supreme Court in Brooklyn herself included opposedsentencing him to death.But on Saturday morning, after turning to her Bible and prayingto her God, the juror added her voice to those who decided thatHarris should die by lethal injection.
If carried out, it will bethe first execution in New York State since 1963.Harris, a 40-year-old former correction officer, received acitation from the city in 1987 for saving the life of a fellowguard during a riot at a Brooklyn jail.
On May 19, he was convictedof first-degree murder in the deaths of three people at ClubHappiness, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, in December 1996.Attorneys for Harris, describing him as a man with severepsychological problems and an addiction to alcohol and cocaine, hadpressed jurors to spare his life.The lawyers have already filed a motion challenging theconstitutionality of death by lethal injection, and an appeal ofthe sentence is expected soon.
The death penalty was reinstated inNew York in 1995.Perhaps it will never be known exactly what led the panel tosend Harris to the death chamber.
Certainly, Sunday, few on the12-member panel wanted to repeat or reflect on what went on insidethe jury room.Whatever their precise reasons, the sentence they renderedappeared to have been laced with ambivalence.
They deliberated for22 hours over four days.
On Friday, a court officer informed ActingJustice Anne Feldman of flared tempers inside the jury room.
OnSaturday afternoon, as the jury forewoman read the verdict, onewoman on the panel began sobbing so uncontrollably that she nearlycollapsed.
Two of the jurors noted in their verdict report thatHarris had suffered from some emotional distress, though that didnot, in their minds, sufficiently mitigate the crimes for which hewas convicted.Nor did the cool reticence that Harris maintained through theend help his cause.
When a witness who managed to escape hisrampage took the stand, Harris smiled, showing no remorse, recalledthe juror who spoke on condition of anonymity.
And although hismother testified in his behalf and his brother, an ordainedminister, asked the jury to spare his life, Harris chose not totestify even in the sentencing phase of his trial.Harris' lawyer, Russell Neufeld, said Sunday that he and hisclient decided against testifying because the judge had ruled thatthe prosecution would have the final say in stark contrast tononcapital crimes cases, in which the defendant is allowed totestify last.Defense lawyers had conceded that Harris was responsible for themurders, but not because he wanted to eliminate witnesses, as theprosecution had argued.Rather, the defense had argued, Harris suffered from seriouspsychological problems, including those that stemmed from havingbeen severely beaten as a child by his mother, as well as addictionto alcohol and cocaine.
The jail riot had traumatic effects, thedefense had contended, and the city Correction Department forcedHarris to resign in 1991.The verdict drew polar responses.
Gov.
George Pataki, whose 1994campaign was based partly on support for the death penalty, and whosigned into law the measure reinstating the penalty soon aftertaking office, said the sentence would send a powerful message tocriminals.But Mario Cuomo, the former governor, who vetoed capitalpunishment legislation in each of his 12 years in office, calledthe verdict wrong.BLUFF, Utah Police reopened this small San Juan River town totraffic from the outside Sunday morning and said they would cutback their search for two armed fugitives who are suspects in thekilling of a police officer.Sheriff Mike Lacy of San Juan County said he made the decisionto scale back the search after Saturday brought no sightings ofAlan Pilon, 30, of Dove Creek, Colo., or Jason Wayne McVean, 26, ofDurango, Colo.
The two men have been sought since May 29 assuspects in the killing of one police officer and the shooting ofthree others.About 500 people have been looking for the fugitives, includingNavajo trackers and National Guardsmen who have provided infraredand night-vision observation equipment.Officers are using maps found among the suspects' belongings tosearch for caves and other places they might have hidden food,water and other supplies in the parched arroyos and canyons of theFour Corners region of Colorado, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico.
Theysearched a mine on Saturday, Lacy said.The search began in Cortez, Colo., where three men in camouflageclothing killed a city police officer and wounded two sheriff'sdeputies in the ensuing pursuit and gun battle.
Last Thursday, thesearch shifted to the area near Bluff when a sheriff's deputy herewas shot and one of the suspects, Robert Matthew Mason, 26, ofDurango, was found dead from a bullet wound at a campsite neartown.
Authorities believe that Mason committed suicide.Bluff was evacuated on Thursday afternoon.
Residents wereallowed to return on Saturday, but outsiders were barred until 10a.m.
Sunday.
Police officers continued to stand guard at roadblocksat the four entrances to the town and asked visitors not to pick upanyone or give anyone a ride out of town.Galen Headley, who owns the Cadillac Ranch R.V.
Park here, saidhe evacuated the park but decided to stay at home instead ofspending Thursday night with the 230 other residents who left town.WASHINGTON The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committeesaid Sunday that testimony to the panel last week in closed sessionshowed that the Chinese government had planned to influence the1996 election.But the chairman, Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., added that itremained unclear whether the efforts were actually carried out.
Hiscomments were based on testimony by Attorney General Janet Reno,CIA Director George Tenet and FBI Director Louis Freeh.Shelby's remarks, his first public comment on the subject,echoed findings of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, whichlast year concluded that Beijing had tried to influence Americanelections.
But that committee, headed by Sen. Fred Thompson,R-Tenn., also uncovered scant evidence that the plan had beencarried out.Shelby's committee hearings last week were the first formalcongressional sessions on the China Plan, as it is known, since thedisclosure that Johnny Chung, a Democratic Party fund-raiser, hadtold Justice Department investigators that a large portion of thenearly $100,000 that he raised for the Democrats came from anofficial with close ties to the Chinese army.The money came from Liu Chaoying, a Chinese army lieutenantcolonel who also is an official of a Chinese aerospace company.
Herfather was a high-ranking general and Communist Party official.Shelby's hearings were the first of a number of plannedcongressional inquiries into accusations concerning campaignfund-raising and the Clinton administration's decision-makingprocess in allowing the launching of civilian American satelliteson Chinese rockets.The Justice Department is looking into Chung's disclosures alongwith whether two satellite makers Loral Space and Communicationsand Hughes Electronics illegally gave China space expertise thatallowed Beijing to more accurately aim its nuclear missiles.
Theissue of the transfer of technology arose after a Chinese rocketcarrying a $200 million Loral satellite was launched in China onFeb.
15, 1996, and exploded seconds later.China asked Loral and some experts from Hughes to conduct anindependent review of the accident.
It was in the course of thereview that some administration officials raised questions abouthow much information had been turned over to the Chinese.Bernard Schwartz, the Loral chairman, contributed more than $1million to Democratic political campaigns in the last election.Schwartz and other Loral officials denied the donations were aneffort to influence administration decisions on Loral's satellitedeal.Last week, the intelligence committee uncovered evidence ofconflicting views on the subject within the administration.
A CIAreview concluded that the companies had not disclosed informationto China that damaged national security.
But an intelligence arm ofthe State Department found that the disclosure had placed Americansecurity interests at risk.ALBANY, N.Y.
If only Bertrand Russell had known about themeetings of the Assembly Rules Committee, he might never have hadto invent the bald king of France.The committee does have members; indeed, its 26 Democrats and 12Republicans make it the Legislature's largest.
It also hasresponsibilities, in fact, arguably more than any other Assemblycommittee.
During the last few frenzied weeks of a session, whenmost legislation finally reaches the floor for a vote, it is up tothe Rules Committee to set the agenda.
It has the power to move abill forward or, just as significant, hold one back, therebykilling it.Members of the committee openly acknowledge that they do notmeet or vote and that they have no room assigned for theirnonexistent deliberations.They also make no secret of where the work of the committee isreally being done, or who is doing it.
They jokingly refer to theAssembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, as Mr. Rules.
And the committee,they like to say, meets between his ears.This year there has been a lot of talk here about a new era ofopenness, about the democratization of the Capitol, about anunparalleled shift of power from the legislative leaders torank-and-file members.
After all, ordinary Joe Six-Pack legislatorswere actually allowed to discuss the budget in conferencecommittees this spring and to offer their suggestions.
This,lawmakers all agreed, was a big improvement over last year, whenthey were not even told what was in the budget until negotiationswere safely concluded.So tight is their control over their respective houses thatpractically no vote is taken in either the Assembly or the Senatein which the outcome has not been determined in advance.
Onoccasion, a lawmaker may vote against his party, but it is expectedthat he will first get permission to do so.As this session heads toward recess, there are few signs thesehabits are changing.
Lawmakers say they expect the session, likethose before it, to end in an all-night marathon.
They expect billsthat they have never had a chance to read to suddenly pop out ofthe Rules Committee.
And they fully expect to approve them.It is a sign of how well established this political culture isthat even members of the Rules Committee largely accept its oddontological status as a matter of course, a subject more fit forhumor than outrage or embarrassment.Winner recalled that a few years ago, there was a push to changethe Assembly rules and force the Rules Committee to meet.
Notsurprisingly, the change, sponsored by the minority, was, at therequest of the leadership, smothered by the majority.NEW YORK The constitutionality of New York State's untested1995 capital punishment law and what the defense considers ajudge's flawed conduct of the murder trial of Darrel Harris will bethe focus of the condemned man's historic appeal, his chief triallawyer and other legal experts said on Sunday.A day after a jury in Brooklyn sentenced the 40-year-old formerjail guard to die by lethal injection for killing three people in abotched 1996 robbery at an illegal social club, lawyers for Harriswere already mapping strategy for an appeal to the state's highesttribunal, the Court of Appeals.The appeal is likely to take years, experts said, and isexpected to be the crucial test of the state's three-year-old deathpenalty law: not only deciding whether it is lawful under thefederal and New York State Constitutions, but also setting a hostof legal standards, from the way judges conduct capital trials tothe propriety of using injections in executions.The appeal's prospects were clouded in uncertainty, expertssaid, not only because of the complexity of the issues to bedecided, but also because the composition of the Court of Appealsis soon to change, with the most liberal of its seven members,Judge Vito Titone, resigning this month, and a more conservativereplacement expected to be appointed by Gov.
George Pataki.Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes was expected to argueagainst the appeal, with assistance from New York State AttorneyGeneral Dennis Vacco.
Jonathan Frank, the assistant districtattorney who led the prosecution of Harris, voiced confidence thatthe statute and the verdict would be upheld.While details of the appeal are yet to be determined, some ofthe issues that may be raised were discussed in interviews Sundayby Harris' chief Legal Aid lawyer during the trial, RussellNeufeld, and by Doyle.Among the constitutional issues that may be raised, the defenselawyers said, are questions over the criteria used by prosecutorsto select capital cases for trial, about the composition of juriesin capital cases, about the wording judges use in charging suchjuries and about whether lethal injections cause inhumane pain andsuffering.While an appeal was not expected to reargue many of the issuesdecided by the trial jury, the lawyers said it would contend thatmany of the rulings by Acting Justice Anne Feldman in State SupremeCourt deprived Harris of a fair trial.Doyle, citing an example, noted that the law requires a jury,after a conviction in a capital case, to decide unanimously in aseparate deliberation either to invoke the death penalty or imposelife in prison without possibilty of parole; if it fails to doeither unanimously, the trial judge is authorized to impose asentence of 20 or 25 years to life in prison.While she was technically correct, he said, the jury might havebeen told that the judge would impose the sentence prescribed bylaw.
As a practical matter, if the judge had passed sentenced,Harris might have been given three consecutive terms of 25 years tolife because he had killed three people.
The defense asked thejudge to give a fuller explanation, he said, fearing the jury mightconclude that Harris would receive a lesser sentence, and perhapsregain freedom or get a new trial if the jury did not reach aunanimous decision.
The judge refused, he said.NEW YORK The skirmishes over New York City's next budgetcontinued Sunday as City Council leaders ventured into thelabyrinthine world of property taxes to patch a $251 million holethat Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had blown into their budget a dayearlier.Meanwhile, Giuliani's aides fiercely attacked the Council'sbudget as illegal.
They described Council members as spendthriftswho had increased spending on themselves in the last four yearseven as the mayor's office had substantially lowered its ownexpenses.These were the latest shots in a battle that erupted on Friday,when the Council defied Giuliani by adopting a budget without hisendorsement.
On Saturday, the mayor countered by announcing thatexpected revenue for next year would fall short of earlierestimates by $251 million.
The move was intended to force theCouncil either to accept eventual spending vetoes by the mayor orraise property taxes the only tax over which the legislative bodyhas control to balance the budget.But aides to Peter Vallone, the Council speaker, said Sundaynight that the Council had another response up its sleeve.
It willmeet Monday morning and, turning to an arcane section of the city'sproperty tax law, draw the $251 million from a reserve fund thatcovers property tax shortfalls, the aides said.
Taxes will not goup, they insisted.The escalating fight over $251 million which representsseven-tenths of a percent of the $34.08 billion budget underscored yet again how political hostilities have complicatedthe annual budget negotiations between Giuliani and Vallone, whountil now shared harmonious relations and, in the recession of themid-1990s, were able to agree on deep cuts in services in almostevery area of the city.In a normal year and especially this fiscal year, which isexpected to end June 30 with a record $2 billion surplus budgetofficials from both sides might have settled such picayunedifferences over drinks at one of the many bars near City Hall.
Andthe agreement would have been announced at a carefully orchestratedphoto opportunity, with Vallone and Giuliani flashing smiles attelevision cameras, shaking hands and slapping backs.But budget talks collapsed last Monday amid much chest-beatingand a political deadlock.
The mayor, who wants to use city money tohelp build a new home for the New York Yankees, possibly on theWest Side of Manhattan, wanted Vallone to drop his call for aNovember referendum on the issue.
But the speaker refused, sayingthe referendum had nothing to do with budget talks.
Vallone, who isseeking the Democratic nomination for governor, has a politicalbase strongly opposes any suggestion of moving the Yankees out ofthe Bronx into Manhattan; what's more, in a general race againstGov.
George Pataki, a referendum on the November ballot wouldincrease voter turnout in Democratic strongholds like the Bronx andManhattan.NEW YORK For The Daily News, the rainbow of new color pages isstill somewhere over the rainbow, and the search for the best wayto keep the color inks free of water continues, but the lawsuitthat the paper's parent company filed against the company thatsupplied the balky newsliner presses is over.The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for rerunson AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPIDataNews.ASIA-ECON (Ban Wan Yai, Thailand) In the 11 months since theeconomic crisis exploded in Thailand and began spreading throughthe region, the most prominent victims have been the humbledtycoons in the big cities, and they have fallen farthest.
But theworst off are those who were already at the margins of society those who had almost nothing before and who now, somehow, have evenless.
By Nicholas D. Kristof.ITALY-POMPEII (Pompeii, Italy) There are two Pompeiis on thebay of Naples, and it is not always clear which is the dead city.One, crawling with tourists, guides, workmen and archaeologists,hums with activity.
The other, where the unemployment rate is 30percent, boasts crumbling buildings, faded hontytonk signs, oldpeople and stray dogs sleeping in the sun.
A journal by AlessandraStanley.KOSOVO-REBELS (Tropoje, Albania) The rebels who escortrefugees across the border into Albania boast proudly that they areholding a stretch of road near Pec against Serbian soldiers.
Butnone are able to explain how dying for this piece of asphaltadvances the rebel cause.
By Chris Hedges.EXCLUSIVE-WARMING-CLIMATE (Undated) The White House willannounce on Monday that according to an analysis by governmentscientists, El Nino joined the Earth's continuing overall warmingtrend to break global temperature records in each of the first fivemonths of 1998.
By William K. Stevens.NRA-CONVENTION (Philadelphia) A visit to the NRA convention inPhiladelphia: Weary of being seen as an extremist, right-wingorganization, out of touch with mainstream America, the NationalRifle Association is going on the offensive.
By Michael Janofsky.ELDERLY-CARE (Philadelphia) As Americans continue to livelonger than ever, growing numbers of elderly people and theirfamilies are being caught in the gap between the cost of long-termcare and the limited amount of government aid to pay for it.
And asthe baby boomers age over the next 30 years and the over-85population grows particularly fast, the need for such care willonly escalate, experts say.
By Sara Rimer.CALIF-BIRD-CALLERS (Piedmont, Calif.) For decades, the claimto fame of Piedmont, an affluent community of about 11,500residents nestled next to Oakland, had been the high school'sannual bird-calling contest, in which the college-destined sons ofphysicians and daughters of lawyers took a frivolous pause frommore relevant endeavors to imitate the calls of the wild.
By FrankBruni.CLINTON-CLERGY-CHINA (Undated) A broad array of religiousleaders is urging Clinton to use his summit meeting later thismonth in Beijing to press the Chinese government to end therepression of religious believers there.CALIF-ANTISMOKE (San Francisco) The California Public HealthDepartment has unveiled its latest anti-smoking ad: a guy with alimp cigarette in his mouth.
The message: cigarettes raiseimpotency rates.
It's an interesting approach in the Viagra era,but it's also a window into the endless creativity and effort thatthis state, perhaps more than any other, pours into theanti-smoking crusade.LIFE-INSURE-DECLINE (Undated) Generations of Americans havelooked at life insurance as a cornerstone of family finances, butnow, with people living longer and worrying more about running outof money in retirement, millions of Americans are either doingwithout life insurance or buying less.
The shift in attitudes hasnow reached a critical mass, sending life insurance sales into afree fall.
By Joseph B. Treaster.INTEL-ANTITRUST (Washington) The FTC is expected to file amajor antitrust lawsuit against Intel Corp., and Intel executivesand lawyers have vowed to fight the suit vigorously.
By JoelBrinkley.BRITAIN-CW (Undated) Seeking to expand Cable and Wireless'presence in the United States, where so far it mainly resellslong-distance service to business customers, Richard H. Brown,chief executive of Cable and Wireless agreed two weeks ago to buy alarge portion of the Internet business of MCI Communications for$625 million.
By Seth Schiesel.CHIPS-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Semiconductor stocks, which havebeen battered this year as one formerly stellar company afteranother has reported earnings disappointments, layoffs and productdelays.
Chip industry analysts agree that the group may be reachinga bottom, but they differ on when to start buying chip stocksagain.
By Lawrence M. Fisher.AWARDS-AD-COLUMN (New York) The advertising awards seasoncontinues in full swing as five organizations have bestowed honorsfor television and radio commercials, art direction, corporatecitizenship and fragrance advertising.
Interestingly, many of thoseawards went to agencies owned by Omnicom Group.
By Stuart Elliott.HDTV-FCC (Undated) With the rollout of digital television toomuch in flux for the liking of federal regulators, the FCC has setup a get-tough task force headed by one of its commissioners, SusanNess.
Among the imponderables: the first digital TV sets to hit themarket this fall will probably not be compatible with digital cabletelevision signals.
By Joel Brinkley.DOMAIN-NAMES-ASSESS (Undated) The government has decided toturn the management of Internet domain names and thus themanagement of the Internet itself over to an as-yet-unformedprivate corporation, representing various Internet interests.
ByPeter H. Lewis.CISCO-COMPETE (Undated) For most of the past decade, CiscoSystems Inc. has been steamrolling competitors in data networking.Its routers and switches dominate the Internet and corporatenetworks that try to get disparate sorts of computers to talk toeach other.
But lately, Cisco is on a collision course with a setof new, much bigger competitors.
A look at how Lucent and Nortelare angling for Cisco's network equipment business.PRISON-HEALTHCARE (Undated) With the ranks of prisoners risingan average of 8 percent every year, prison health care is anexpensive proposition.
To control costs and enhance security, ahandful of states are trying out telemedicine -- healthcare viatelecommunications.
With government agencies, managed careproviders, and legislators watching, these programs are serving asproving grounds for bringing telemedicine to the broaderpopulation.TV-CNN-MEDIA (Undated) It is hard to know what came first the idea of partnerships between Time-Warner's weekly magazines andTurner Broadcasting's all-news network CNN, or the idea of changingCNN's humdrum reputation.
But when Time Warner Inc. and Turnermerged in the fall of 1996, both ideas began to percolate.
A lookat what's behind the big facelift at CNN.
By Lawrie Mifflin.TV-NEWSVIEWERS-MEDIA (Undated) Following a pattern seen inentertainment viewing, Americans now watch news programs on cabletelevision networks about as regularly as those on broadcastnetworks, according to a survey by the Pew Research Center for thePeople and the Press.
The researchers also found that the number ofpeople who get their news from the Internet is rising rapidly, andestimated that almost as many people use the Internet on a typicalweekday as spend time reading a magazine.
By Lawrie Mifflin.Victory Gallop has a more important and prominent nose thanCyrano de Bergerac or Pinocchio.
His narrow margin of victory inSaturday's 130th Belmont Stakes at Belmont Park not only preventedReal Quiet from capturing the Triple Crown and a $5 million bonus but it also reopened the race for championship honors among thisyear's talented crop of 3-year-olds.
Had Real Quiet won, he would have been assured an Eclipse Awardas the champion 3-year-old.
Now, a number of colts includingVictory Gallop, Coronado's Quest, Indian Charlie and even Lil's Ladand Favorite Trick are back in the running, and their presenceoffers promise of dramatic matches in a series of important racesfor 3-year-olds in the second half of the year.Real Quiet and Victory Gallop emerged as the best of theirgeneration through a thrilling series of races in the Triple Crown.They were one-two in the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes andBelmont, with Real Quiet winning two of the three, and theirrivalry should continue this summer.
Their trainers said the$750,000 Travers Stakes at the Derby distance of a mile andone-quarter on Aug. 29 at Saratoga is their next major objective.Elliott Walden, who trains Victory Gallop, and Real Quiet'strainer, Bob Baffert, said Sunday morning at Belmont that theircolts emerged from Saturday's thrilling race tired but in goodhealth.
Walden felt a sense of accomplishment for having stayed thecourse on the Triple Crown trail.After a night to sleep on the result, Baffert still refused tosecond-guess anything with Real Quiet, from his own training to theride of Kent Desormeaux.
Baffert missed the Triple Crown last yearwhen Silver Charm ran second in the Belmont after taking the Derbyand Preakness.
Real Quiet left Belmont at 6:30 a.m. Sunday and was flown toLouisville, Ky., and Churchill Downs, where he will rest for a weekbefore rejoining Baffert's large stable in Southern California.Victory Gallop is flying to Kentucky, where Walden is based.
Butboth will be headed East again soon.Victory Gallop is likely to make his next start in the $1million Haskell Invitational at a mile and one-eighth at NewJersey's Monmouth Park on Aug. 9, then go to the Travers, Waldensaid.
Baffert said Real Quiet would definitely be at the Travers.Also ticketed for a trip to the Haskell is the mercurialCoronado's Quest, who returned to action on Saturday and won theseven-furlong Riva Ridge Stakes on the Belmont undercard.Coronado's Quest has had a spring filled with high drama.
Hiserratic behavior compromised his chances in races in Floridaearlier this year and led to a decision not to run him in theKentucky Derby.
Then he was scratched from the Preakness because ofa bruised foot.Coronado's Quest's victory on Saturday was efficient ifunspectacular, but his deportment before 80,162 fans wasexemplary in both the saddling paddock and post parade.He said Coronado's Quest would run once before the Haskell, inBelmont's $150,000 Dwyer Stakes, at a mile and one-sixteenth, onJuly 12.Favorite Trick also is expected to run in the Dwyer.
The 1997Horse of the Year, he has not raced since finishing eighth in theKentucky Derby.Lil's Lad, who was disqualified from victory in the FloridaDerby earlier this year, will join the party last of all.
He neededminor ankle surgery after his second-place finish in the Blue GrassStakes, and only in the past week has he gone back to the track totrain.
His trainer, Neil Howard, said Lil's Lad probably would notbe ready to race until late August or early September, near the endof the Saratoga meeting.The hubbub of chatter stopped.
As Ausfahl strummed his guitar,the roisterous kindergartners at Public School 114 in the Bronxlifted their faces in delight.
Accompanying him were Brian Grice onthe drums and Sue Terry on the flute.
Between songs, they taughtthe rudiments of their instruments.Jeff Ausfahl has played the guitar professionally for 25 years.He is what is known as a club date musician, who primarily performsat single engagements like weddings and private parties.
A highlymalleable guitarist, he can play everything from dance to rock toclassical to merengue to polkas.
He plays songs of contagious cheerand songs with a lot of ache in them, though he no longer gets toperform anywhere as much as he would like to.
Such is the sharplyaltered shape of the musician's life in a world more in thrall tocanned music than live.That is why Ausfahl, at 43, finds himself doing about 75 gigs ayear in front of schoolchildren, arranged through Music Outreach, anonprofit outfit that puts on music demonstrations in publicschools in New York.
The audience is highly appreciative.
He needsthe work.There has been an evolving decline in jobs for live musicians,caught in the undertow of disc jockeys spinning CDs on muchimproved sound systems and a more thrift-minded economy.Local 802, the New York chapter of the American Federation ofMusicians, to which Ausfahl belongs, says union club dates in thecity have tumbled to about 6,000 a year from as many as 15,000 15years ago.
The union reports that the bar mitzvah business andlower-end weddings have been almost totally lost to DJs, whogenerally cost a fraction of what a band does.Far fewer musicians find themselves able to play full timeanymore.
Many teach.
And it has become axiomatic among unionmusicians that they must accept nonunion jobs to eat, a practicethe union tolerates.It is not strictly economics that has brought on this state ofaffairs.
Many people do not want to hear someone who sounds likeBruce Springsteen or Elton John.
They want Bruce Springsteen orElton John, even if he is coming out of a box.These days, musicians have come to feel like very expensivebottles of wine, tasted less and less often.It was a languid Monday void of gigs, and Ausfahl was working onthe attic of the tidy Teaneck, N.J., house that he shares with hiswife, Janet, and a parakeet named Henry.
Ausfahl is a sinewy,genial man with longish hair and sharply chiseled features.He eventually received a degree from Berklee College of Music inBoston, after several interruptions.
For a spell, he played rockmusic at bars and Holiday Inn lounges.
For eight months in 1975, hejoined a band in Chicago called Even Steven.
The musicians woresilver satin suits and played soul music.
One summer, he journeyedto Virginia Beach and played military bases and wet T-shirtcontests.He has never recorded his own album, though he has been on a fewbootleg records.
In the past, he appeared at many familiar New Yorknightclubs like CBGB and the Bitter End, but he has forsaken thatscene.Within reason, he'll take whatever comes along.
He has a steadyFriday night gig at a university club, where he plays swing anddance music and also sings.
Once he played a divorce.
A man was soelated when his divorce papers were signed that he threw a party.In exchange for a free checkup, he recorded a song written by hisdentist to be entered in a contest to anoint a state song for NewJersey.
(It lost.
)Saturday parties pay about $200 (weekdays are about $170), andif he leads the band, it's $100 more.
There is a $10 bonus if helugs along his own amplifier, which he always does.
When he playssolo guitar in a restaurant, he has trouble getting more than $125.A jazz club pays him no more than $50 to $75.
In these days ofdepleted jobs, fees can get insulting.
Not long ago, Ausfahlrebuffed an offer to play jazz in a prison in Albany for $80.The splendiferous Bedens Brook Club lies at the end of a curvingroad in Skillman, N.J., on the outskirts of Princeton.
On a recentThursday evening, the Princeton class of 1953 had gathered for areunion dinner and dance.
Don Anderson, a grizzled, 67-year-oldband leader and piano player, had hired Ausfahl and three others toprovide the evening's entertainment.Even as the evening waned, the floor was seething with dancers.The musicians had smiles on their faces.
By no means was JeffAusfahl wallpaper tonight.
He was making music.NEW YORK Fire marshals spent Sunday slowly searching what wasleft of a row of Brooklyn buildings in search of definitive cluesto what caused a five-alarm blaze that killed a fire lieutenant andleft a fire captain severely burned and clinging to life, fireofficials said.The injured captain, Scott LaPiedra, 40, of Staten Island, wasin critical condition Sunday night at Jacobi Medical Center in theBronx with second- and third-degree burns over more than 70 percentof his body.Investigators picked through the charred remains of thethree-story, wood and brick city-owned apartment building at 2530Atlantic Ave. in East New York, which burst into flames Fridaynight.
No occupants of the building were hurt, but the blaze spreadto three adjacent buildings and took more than 220 firefightersmore than four hours to bring under control.Fire officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said theysuspect the fire started in a mattress in the apartment buildingabout 8:20 p.m.But Washington said Sunday that fire marshals had not announceda definitive cause of the blaze and that the scope of the damagewas complicating the investigation.Fire officials said funeral services would be held Wednesday forLt.
James Blackmore, 48, who died of a heart attack in the fire.
Inaddition to LaPiedra, five other firefighters injured in the blazeremained hospitalized with second- and third-degree burns and otherinjuries Sunday, fire officials said.
None of their injuries wasconsidered life-threatening.Blackmore, LaPiedra and the five other firefighters were injuredwhen they rushed onto the second floor of the burning apartmentbuilding after a woman told them her elderly mother was trappedthere.
As the firefighters searched for the missing woman, thesecond floor collapsed, dropping them into a raging fire on thefirst floor.The wake for Blackmore will be held Monday and Tuesday at theMcCourt Trudden Funeral Home at 385 Main St. in Farmingdale, N.Y.His funeral will be held on Wednesday at 11 a.m. at St. KilianRoman Catholic Church at 485 Conklin St. in Farmingdale.BOSTON On Sunday night, the New York Mets looked like a teamin a trance or a team anxious to return home after an 11-game roadtrip or a team that could not see very clearly because thepersistent rain pelted 25 pairs of eyes.
Actually, the Mets lookedlike all of the above and worse while tumbling to the Boston RedSox 5-0.It was the wrong night for the resurgent Mets to be featurednationally on ESPN since Masato Yoshii lasted only five innings andSteve Avery remember him?
pitched his best game for Bostonagainst a lineup that was still without the injured Mike Piazza.While Yoshii was abysmal mostly during a four-run third, NewYork's hitters were dismal all evening against a pitcher whoentered the contest with a 6.41 earned run average.
Who would haveexpected the Mets to pulverize Pedro Martinez, the Cy Young awardwinner in the National League last season, for four homers Fridaynight and be mesmerized by Avery, who has three pinch-runningappearances listed as achievements for 1998?But Avery won his third straight decision by baffling the Metswith off-speed pitches and halting them on three hits in seveninnings as the Red Sox grabbed the final game of a three-gameinterleague series.
The Mets finished 7-4 on this trip.Darren Lewis singled off the Green Monster in left, stole secondand scored when Reggie Jefferson rapped a 2-2 single to center.After Nomar Garciaparra doubled on a 1-2 pitch and Mo Vaughn walkedto cram the bases, Troy O'Leary dribbled the third straighttwo-strike pitch past a diving Carlos Baerga and into center toscore two more runs.
John Valentin ended the two-strike streak byblooping a 2-0 pitch into shallow right that doubled in Vaughn andmade it 4-0.After the early onslought, the Mets had a chance to get backinto it when Brian McRae started the fourth by hammering a 400-foottriple to center.
But McRae, whose gyrations helped Tim Wakefieldbalk in the only run in a 1-0 victory on Saturday, did not seem asanxious to score on Sunday night.
He did not try to come in onEdgardo Alfonzo's smash to first, which caromed off Vaughn's gloveand rolled away from him.
Bernard Gilkey's flyball reached mediumright, but McRae stopped running about halfway down the line.
Theinning ended abruptly as John Olerud struck out and Scott Hattebergthrew to second to catch Gilkey by 10 feet.NEW YORK A 14-year-old girl was shot and killed at a friend'sapartment in Brooklyn early Sunday when a pistol being handled byan adult discharged, the police said.Investigators said they believed that the shooting was anaccident and that the man, who was being sought for questioning,panicked and fled.The girl, Selena Slade, a resident of Bushwick, Brooklyn, waslistening to music in a friend's apartment at 1145 Lenox Rd.
inBrownsville just after midnight when she was shot in the chest by aman who had started handling a pistol, said Officer Leslie Cardona,a police spokeswoman.The man, who was a friend of the woman who rented the apartment,fled immediately, the police said.
Miss Slade was pronounced deadat the scene, the police said.Detectives from the 67th Precinct were still trying to find theman and talk to him Sunday night.
The police identified him only as41 years old.At the apartment where Miss Slade was shot, in a well-keptbuilding called the Lenox Court, a radio was playing inside, but noone would come to the door to discuss the shooting.NEW YORK Nestled among the mammoth numbers in the budgetpassed by the City Council last week are page after page of smallones: $500 to the Actors Company Theater, $3,000 to the BrooklynPuerto Rican Day Parade, $3,125 to the Shore Garden Club.Member items have long been a way for the Council leaders toreward favored members and punish troublesome ones.
Each of thecouncil's 44 Democrats was allowed to dole out at least $80,000 togroups, while the 7 Republicans learned Friday that they had beencut back to $50,000.
The system makes most members happy, so fewtalk about it.As the mayor suggested with his comments on Saturday, members dotake their items very personally.
A frenzy erupted in thehigh-ceilinged Council hearing room when the budget packets werepassed out at lunchtime on Friday, as Council members holed up inbay windows and side rooms to check to be sure all their items wereincluded.
Aides bearing cellular phones and takeout food peekedover their shoulders.Councilman Victor Robles, D-Brooklyn, whipped out a yellowhighlighter.
Councilwoman Julia Harrison, a D-Queens, made a listand checked it twice on an envelope.
And Councilwoman Una Clarke, aD-Brooklyn, huddled with a calculator and an aide from the CouncilFinance Division.The member items have often been used to please most Councilmembers just before the budget vote, and to punish others out ofstep with the leadership.
In the past, for instance, items forliberal and progressive Democrats were cut by the party's centristleaders.
This year, Council leaders said that when a Republican'smember items were reduced, the money was spread around in thepunished member's district, so that the district gets the money butthe member cannot claim credit for it.NEW YORK For more than a year, Rep. Edolphus Towns, a 16-yearmember of Congress from Brooklyn, has been certain he would facesome well-connected opposition in the Democratic primary this year.His only uncertainty was who that opponent would be.Last week, Towns found out.
Barry Ford, a 35-year-old lawyerwith the firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen Hamilton, announced thathe would seek to unseat Towns in the Sept. 15 primary.
AlthoughFord is as much a political novice as Towns is an experiencedpolitical maneuverer, his insurgent candidacy is nonethelessreceiving a great deal of attention among Brooklyn politicians andanalysts.Normally, a race by a political newcomer against a 63-year-old,eight-term incumbent would not generate much attention.
But Ford,who was educated at Harvard University and Harvard Law School, hasso far raised nearly $100,000 only slightly less than the$120,000 raised by Towns.
Furthermore, Ford is being encouraged byAssemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., the chairman of the BrooklynDemocratic Party, and the Ford campaign is expected to benefit fromwhatever assistance the chairman can muster.For nearly two years, Towns has been locked in a bitterpolitical war with Norman, his onetime confidant.
In recent monthsthe Democratic chairman has vowed to find a candidate to runagainst the congressman.
Norman first courted the Rev.
Al Sharptonbefore turning to City Councilwoman Annette Robinson, both of whomultimately decided not to run against Towns.Ford, however, has eagerly dived into the race.
He has beenadept not only at raising money he worked as a fund-raiser forPresident Clinton's last campaign, as well as for the campaigns offormer Mayor David Dinkins, former Gov.
Mario Cuomo and RuthMessinger, the former Manhattan borough president but also atfocusing his attacks on Towns.For his part, Towns said he had long been prepared for a strongchallenge, but he dismissed Ford as a political aspirant who hasnot demonstrated much community involvement.For more than a year now, the feud between Towns and Norman hasoccupied center stage in Brooklyn politics.
For many years, the twomen operated as if they were political father and son.
But in thelast two years, the two Democrats began sparring, first overcompeting sets of delegates to the party's convention to selectjudicial candidates, a race that Norman won.Last year, after supporting Sharpton's mayoral campaign in theDemocratic primary, Towns endorsed Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in thegeneral election, a move that Norman called a final straw and anact of party betrayal.NEW YORK When it came on Saturday, New York state's firstdeath-penalty verdict in decades showed that capital punishmentremains a tangled political issue long after its reinstatement inNew York and nationally.Charles Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney whose officeprosecuted the case, has staked out an unusual position that ismaking him a symbol of the enduring potency of the debate over theultimate penalty.As district attorney, Hynes has sought death sentences in fivecases, far more than any other prosecutor in the state, winning himpraise from death-penalty proponents as a prosecutor who is willingto make the threat of execution real.But as a candidate for governor in the crowded Democratic field,Hynes is startling audiences across the state with passionatecriticism of the death penalty.
Hynes is the only Democraticcandidate who persistently brings up the issue and promises ifelected to work to repeal the death-penalty law, whose passage wasa central theme of Gov.
George Pataki's campaign four years ago.Since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1995, criticshave said Hynes has an eat-your-cake-and-have-it-too position.
Someof them trace his position to a desire to win votes in thehurly-burly of Brooklyn politics, a borough that includes theliberal bastions of Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope, thepolitically conservative Orthodox Jewish enclaves and thepolitically crucial black and Hispanic neighborhoods, where thedeath penalty can be a volatile issue.In the interview, Hynes denied that he had pursued the deathpenalty for political reasons.
But he acknowledged the obviousdistress of the jurors after the death sentence was announced forDarrel Harris, a former jail guard once cited for heroism who wasconvicted of a triple homicide.Whatever Hynes' motives, his role as a prosecutor who seeks thedeath penalty while remaining personally opposed to it has beenpart of a winning political formula in Brooklyn.
In 1997, duringhis third successful campaign to be prosecutor of New York City'smost populous borough, he won with not only the Democratic andLiberal Party designations but with the Republican nomination aswell.For district attorneys, who must stand for election even if theydo not have larger political ambitions, the state's reinstatementof the death penalty in 1995 created a political minefield.Each of the city's district attorneys has steered through itexceedingly carefully.
Their views range from outright support forthe death penalty, expressed by District Attorney William Murphy ofStaten Island, to cautious opposition, expressed by DistrictAttorney Robert Johnson of the Bronx.And many lawyers have concluded that the Manhattan districtattorney, Robert Morgenthau, is shrewdly sabotaging the law.Morgenthau, a longtime death-penalty opponent, has said he isevaluating each case on its merits.
But he has yet to ask for thepenalty after considering the question in a dozen cases.
The Queensdistrict attorney, Richard Brown, has said he is opposed to thedeath penalty but has sought it in at least two cases.In the Bronx, that stance proved popular; Johnson wasoverwhelmingly re-elected later that year.
But in 1996, Patakiremoved Johnson from a case involving the killing of a policeofficer and appointed state Attorney General Dennis Vacco; the casenever went to trial because the defendant committed suicide.Norman Siegel, a death-penalty opponent who is executivedirector of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said Saturday'sverdict opened the door to a new era of executions in New Yorkstate.
Hynes, as the prosecutor who has been most active in seekingdeath sentences, bears some responsibility for that no matter whathis own views are, Siegel said.For any prosecutor with statewide ambitions, Pataki's victory inhis battle with Johnson made the politics of death-penalty choicesclear: Seek the death penalty or risk being tarred as anobstructionist.An obstructionist posture might win support from staunchdeath-penalty opponents.
But it was also likely to galvanizeproponents and make them active political enemies.Hynes has always presented himself as a politician who isdisgusted by the pandering of other politicians.
He said hisremarks against the death penalty while he pursues it in court areconsistent with a frankness that he believes voters want.However well his approach has worked in Brooklyn, for years hisapparent frustration at being unable to move beyond the districtattorney's office has been a constant of New York politics.He took office after becoming a political celebrity in the 1970sand '80s.
He was a special prosecutor in cases of nursing-homefraud and political corruption.
He had well-placed politicalfriends and was once New York City fire commissioner.As special prosecutor in the 1986 Howard Beach racial killingcases, he achieved widespread fame, with books written about himand a television movie in which he was played by Daniel Travanti.His ambitions have long been the subject of speculation.
He wasoften mentioned as a possible candidate for mayor or governor andran unsuccessfully for state attorney general twice, in 1978 and1994.Critics have suggested that his stance on the death penalty wasintended to try to ensure that his longtime opposition would notbecome a roadblock to higher office.In the interview, he conceded that at 63, he is probably runninghis last campaign for statewide office.It took more than half a century for the Tonys to present itsfirst directing award to a woman.
It took five minutes to presentthe second one.The 52nd annual Tony Awards capped the most successful season inBroadway history, with record attendance of more than 11 millionand box-office grosses in excess of $550 million, and it was amongthe most competitive Tony ceremony in many years with strongcontests in virtually every category.
For the second year, RosieO'Donnell was host.The Manhattan Theater Club's announcement drew ire fromplaywrights and other theater professionals and the companyreinstated the play, which mixes themes of Christianity andhomosexuality.The first Antoinette Perry Awards popularly known as Tonys were presented by the American Theater Wing in 1947 in the grandballroom of the Waldorf Astoria.Named for the actress, director and producer who died in 1946after having been one of the leaders of the wing, a theatricalservice organization, the awards have established themselves as themost important in American commercial theater.The Tony Administration Committee, including most of the keyplayers on Broadway and in national touring productions, overseesthe awards and determines who is eligible to vote for them.A Tony Nominating Committee, which has 19 members, announcedthis year's roster of nominees on May 4, beginning five weeks ofcocktail parties, awards ceremonies and behind-the-scenes jostling.In the end, some 782 theater professionals and journalists wereeligible to cast ballots in 21 categories for Sunday night'sawards.The instant success of the new format and the new host ratingsrose 35 percent over 1996 silenced those who had beenuncomfortable with the Tonys being held in a non-Broadway house andpresided over by a television talk show host.Although many Broadway veterans were among the presenters Sundaynight, including Tommy Tune, Nathan Lane and Bebe Neuwirth, theproducers also included numerous film and television personalitieswho will appear or have appeared in recent shows, such as HelenHunt, Alec Baldwin and Marisa Tomei.The three-hour awards ceremony was split into two programs.During the first hour, which was broadcast on PBS by WNET/Channel13 in New York City, all of the technical and behind-the-scenesawards were presented, including the directing awards.
This leftthe subsequent two-hour CBS broadcast to distribute the awards forbest play, best musical, best revivals and all of the actingawards.CHICAGO The Utah Jazz has players with crew cuts and Scoutbadges, good manners and accounting degrees.
So polite, soupstanding.
And yet so unequipped to match the snarling nature of aphysical team that would just as easily kick sand in the face ofthe Jazz.The Chicago Bulls were the aggressors, while the Jazz played thepart of a team from the West typically overwhelmed by a hardenedEast team that hit and hit hard.When it was over, the Jazz went whimpering away from the UnitedCenter after being humiliated 96-54 in Game 3 of the NBA Finals onSunday night.The head bullies were Scottie Pippen, Toni Kukoc and DennisRodman.
They were part of a defensive and offensive effort by theBulls that was so aggressive, the Jazz players were punch drunk bythe end of the first half.
The Jazz appeared too stunned and tootimid to retaliate.Instead of countering with toughness, the Jazz settled forpassive jumpers, rushed its plays and fell right into the hands ofa Bulls team that was driving to the basket and pressuring theball.
The combo resulted in a runaway game that began in the secondquarter.
In a horrible span of the period, the Jazz turned the ballover nine times and fell behind by 18 points before the half.To build that gaudy lead, Pippen became omnipresent as he cutoff every passing lane and flew into the face of any guard whodared to drive to the basket.To keep Karl Malone from countering to keep his team close,Rodman began irritating what had been a hot Malone.He began sticking Malone in the back, and needling him intofrustration.
After Malone hit his first six shots, the bulk ofwhich were over Luc Longley, Rodman came and turned things around.Malone took just one more shot in the first half, and was muchmore ineffective the rest of the game.Kukoc also factored into the Bulls' ambush.
He continually foundhis way to the loose balls, beating players bigger and bulkier inwrestling away rebounds.It was not as if the Jazz players did not realize they faced ateam capable of outmuscling them.
The Jazz entered this game insearch of some aggression after a pedestrian effort in Game 2, whenit was outrebounded on the offensive boards 18-9.Sloan was irate in Game 2.
He was watching the Bulls be theaggressors, seeing them drive for baskets and barge in when theymissed a shot.Steve Kerr was a perfect example.
He missed his 3-pointer, butbolted ahead of John Stockton and underneath Malone to pull awaythe rebound.
Kerr then whipped a pass to Jordan, who completed a3-point play that gave the Bulls a lead they would never relinquishwith 47 seconds left in Game 2.But Sloan's pleas were in vain.
The Jazz Sunday night continuedto play like a team born from the Western Conference stereotype:all talent, no backbone.The feistiness belonged to the Bulls.
Pippen did not get creditfor every steal, or every forced turnover, but the fact that he wasable to roam the court helped him disrupt everything in his path.He was there to shut down Stockton and make him look like a shellof himself with repeated turnovers.Kukoc was there to pick up the remnants of Pippen's work bygrabbing three first-half steals from the flustered and frustratedJazz.
By the end of the first half, the Jazz had turned the ballover 12 times, including 9 in the second quarter.Pippen got credit for one steal and one blocked shot.
Kukoc cameup with five rebounds to go with his steals.As aggressive as the duo was on defense, it was equallyassertive on offense.
Pippen and Kukoc were going to make the Jazzwork.They were making a living getting under the skin of the Jazz.This kind of effort was expected of Pippen.
He is so diverse, hisnormal play affects about three or four categories by the end ofthe night.Kukoc's consistency has been questioned.
In Game 2, he came outwith a sense of urgency to get himself into the game.
He scored 13first-half points, and helped take some of the burden off ofMichael Jordan.
In the second half, though, he did not scorebecause he did not get aggressive.The Bulls barged inside like party-crashers Sunday night.
Andfalling into the stereotypical mold of a team out of the West, theJazz simply stepped aside all too politely.SEATTLE The Los Angeles Dodgers were three outs from goinghome with a smile, but since when is anything that easy?After eight solid innings from Darren Dreifort on Sunday,manager Bill Russell needed three relievers to get through theninth inning of a 7-4 interleague victory over the Seattle Marinersin front of 41,514 at the Kingdome.The Dodgers were hoping to think only about the home runs byGary Sheffield and Eric Karros or the three RBI by Paul Konerko.They took two of three against the Mariners and had a good chanceto make up some ground in the National League West by playing threegames this week against the lowly Oakland A's.But as the plane was warming up so was the bullpen.
And suddenlythe Dodgers' six-run lead started to shrink.
Ken Griffey Jr. hit atwo-run homer off Mark Guthrie, who then gave up a single and awalk.
Scott Radinsky was no better, facing two batters, walking oneand allowing a hit to load the bases.That Osuna struck out Segui on a 2-2 fastball to end the game isonly part of the story.
If Osuna hadn't struggled all season,Guthrie and Radinsky would never have been in the game.It certainly is no longer Radinsky, who took over the closerrole when Osuna faltered.
He didn't get a blown save the way he didtwice at home against Cincinnati, but he has allowed 12 of the last20 batters he's faced to reach base (nine hits, three walks).But Russell knows that Osuna, like Radinsky, is a one-pitchfastball pitcher.
Osuna has more velocity, Radinsky more movement.Neither has been consistent and hitters have adjusted.
Radinsky had10 saves in his first 11 attempts, but just one in his past four.That confidence had been shattered early this year when Osunacame out of spring training with a new three-year contract butwithout control.
He left the team for several days in early Maywhen his father became ill in Mexico.With 62 down, and 100 games to play, the Dodgers (31-31) needhim to step up.Dreifort (4-5) certainly has done his share, winning for thefourth time in five starts.
He struck out Griffey three times, thefirst time that has happened this year.
Dreifort allowed nine hitsbut was helped by two of the Dodgers' three double plays.Last Thursday, the Dodgers refused to trade Dreifort to theMariners as part of the Randy Johnson deal.
Sunday he showed why hemight be worth it.Dreifort was given the lead on a first-inning homer by Sheffieldand a fourth-inning blast by Karros, both off Mariners starterJamie Moyer (3-6).The Dodgers appeared to blow open the game in the sixth when sixconsecutive batters reached base against Moyer and five scored.Konerko, who had four RBI on Saturday, highlighted the inningwith a bases-clearing double to right-center.NEW YORK Larry Seabrook, a state senator from the Bronx whohad long planned to oppose Rep. Eliot Engel, a fellow Democrat,said Sunday that he would not run for Congress this year but wouldprepare for a congressional campaign in two years.Seabrook's decision was an abrupt departure from the position hehas taken for nearly a year.
Indeed, as recently as last week,Seabrook said he had firmly decided to run against Engel and hadmet with a host of politicians, fund-raisers and strategists to puttogether a campaign against the five-term congressman.In an interview Sunday, Seabrook, 46, said he had decidedagainst running, because he had failed to raise enough money andbecause he had not seen a significant increase in the number ofregistered black voters in the 17th Congressional District, whichcovers the northern Bronx and parts of Westchester County.
Seabrookis black.Seabrook had contended that the shifting demographics of thedistrict were creating a more receptive environment for hiscandidacy against Engel, who is white.
After the 1992redistricting, the district's lines were redrawn to increase itsshare of racial and ethnic minorities to nearly 70 percent: 38percent black, 29 percent Hispanic, 29 percent white, 3 percentAsian and 1 percent other.Both Seabrook and Engel said the district's black and Hispanicpopulations have grown since then.
Luther Blake, a demographicconsultant, calculates that about 75 percent of the district'spopulation consists of members of minorities, while Seabrookcontends that the figure is closer to 80 percent.Seabrook's decision came just days before the beginning of thepetitioning period, when candidates have to declare and file papersindicating which offices they seek.
It also came after meetingswith Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic chairman,who has made the protection of his party's incumbents frominsurgent challenges the cornerstone of his stewardship.Seabrook acknowledged that he had spoken with Ramirez, butdeclined to discuss details of their conversation.
Ramirez couldnot be reached by telephone at his home Sunday and did not returncalls to his office.Two weeks ago, Ramirez and the Bronx Democratic organizationaverted what had been widely expected to be another turbulentbattle when Pedro Espada Jr., a former state senator who has beenin a heated feud with the party organization, announced that hewould not run for his former seat.Like Espada's decision, Seabrook's withdrawal from this year'scongressional race represents a major victory for Ramirez.
WithSeabrook and Espada no longer candidates, the Bronx Democraticorganization will have little to no substantial opposition for itsincumbents.Campaign finance reform has been declared dead many times byNewt Gingrich and his eager pallbearers, only to rise again withmore support.
But with the House set to open its long-deferreddebate on overhauling campaign finance laws, the speaker has comeup with another strategy to squelch reform in the form of aparliamentary rule to allow hundreds of amendments.
This sneakyattempt to sow legislative chaos and run out the clock is anotherabuse of power by the speaker.
But advocates can win by standing upto the Georgia obstructionist.Gingrich's pattern of obstruction was first established lastfall.
But a revolt by Republicans forced him to schedule a vote for1998.
When the time came to redeem that promise, Gingrich insultedhis colleagues by blocking consideration of the one bill that wouldchange the system, sponsored by Reps. Christopher Shays ofConnecticut and Martin Meehan of Massachusetts.
Only when theShays-Meehan supporters gathered enough signatures on a petition tobring the bill to the floor did Gingrich relent.
The lesson is thatif Republicans and Democrats raise a cry of protest, Gingrich willback down.Armey and Tom DeLay, the Republican whip, will be in charge ofthe trial-by-amendment scheme.
Among their amendments are everyvariety of poison-pill rider designed to repel Democratic votes.Some of these measures might deserve to be considered on theirmerits on another day.
For now, their obvious purpose is to delayShays-Meehan and confuse the public.Under the glare of publicity, the tactics of Gingrich and hiscolleagues will be seen for what they are, a brazen attempt toundermine the public demand for an end to the influence-peddlingthat passes for campaign finance in America.
Supporters of changeare close to having the votes.
The speaker's desperate trickeryshows that he knows it.
Now is the time for all lawmakers to standup and demonstrate that Congress answers to the public, not tomoneyed interests and a devious speaker.FORT WORTH, Texas A Denton woman who spent three yearsbelieving she had HIV is not entitled to monetary damages from thephysicians and medical laboratory involved in testing, diagnosingand treating her for the disease, a Tarrant County jury concluded.Jurors voted 11-1 in rejecting the negligence claims brought byKhristol Watson, 29, against Dr. Muddamalle Augustine of Arlington,Texas, Drs.
Steven Sotman and Daniel Barbaro of Fort Worth, Texas,and National Psychopharmacology Laboratories, a now-defunctTennessee company.Watson, who was found to be HIV-positive in 1991, sued thephysicians and lab after discovering in 1994 that she is, in fact,HIV-negative.
She said she underwent a hysterectomy in 1993 largelybecause she believed she was infected with the humanimmunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.Her attorneys had asked for damages up to $38 million for painand suffering, lost earnings, medical expenses and mental anguish,including Watson's distress at knowing she can no longer bearchildren.The verdict Friday, which ended a four-week trial, came on thethird day of jury deliberations in 348th District Court.The trial brought out details about Watson's past drug use andemotional problems, and her attorneys played for jurors a film herbrother made about their family's coping with her substance abuse.While Watson believed she carried the AIDS virus, she spoke tostudents, jail inmates and others about AIDS and thelife-threatening dangers of risky behavior.Several jurors interviewed after the trial said they did notfocus on Watson's past in determining whether any of the defendantscould be faulted for negligence.Augustine diagnosed the AIDS virus for Watson in September 1991based on a positive HIV test after she checked into Willow CreekHospital in Arlington for depression and substance abuse.Watson's suit said that her blood sample was switched orcontaminated during the process, between being drawn at WillowCreek and tested in Tennessee and California.
But the trial did notshow conclusively what happened that led to her receiving apositive test report.During the trial, Watson's attorneys argued that Augustinewrongly assessed her HIV status since she had no telltale symptoms.They said Sotman and Barbaro provided substandard medical carebecause they did not retest Watson or question the diagnosis eventhough she never developed key signs of HIV.Defense attorneys countered that the physicians acted reasonablybased on what they knew.
The lawyers also argued that Watson wouldhave had the hysterectomy anyway because of problems withendometriosis and ovarian cysts.Juror Albert Kirkpatrick, 40, of the Fort Worth suburb ofWatauga, the only dissenter, said he drew a conclusion differentfrom the other jurors after looking at all the evidence.Kirkpatrick, an American Airlines facility maintenance mechanic,also said he was swayed by Watson's expert witness.CHICAGO Ron Harper woke up on Sunday morning and feltrefreshed when he looked out his window.
No Wasatch Mountains meantno game at the Delta Center.
No derisive chants or tasteless signsfrom annoying Jazz fans.It began for another team in Game 3 of the National BasketballAssociation finals on Sunday night.
Karl Malone and John Stocktonalso were not in Utah anymore.
If that was not made clear by thenonchalant way Michael Jordan's team converted dunks and3-pointers, it was evident in the surreal margin of victory on thescoreboard.In taking a 2-1 lead in the four-of-seven-game series, Chicagoran the Jazz off its home floor after splitting two games in SaltLake City last week.
With victories here in Games 4 and 5, theBulls could claim their sixth title in eight years without goingback to Utah.The Jazz?
Against the smothering defense of Harper, Jordan andScottie Pippen, Stockton and Malone executed thepick-and-roll-over.
They combined for 12 turnovers, and they didnot play in the fourth quarter as the Bulls ran up the score andbegan laughing and high-fiving on the bench.The closest a team had come to looking this futile was whenIndiana scored 55 points against San Antonio in a regular-seasongame last March 29.
In the playoffs, teams had scored as few as 64points four times.Utah committed 26 turnovers and was outrebounded, 50-38.
It wasdown by 18 points at halftime and trailed by 72-45 after threequarters.
Toni Kukoc (16 points, 6 rebounds and 4 steals) andPippen (10 points, 4 rebounds and 4 assists) were the perfectcomplements to Jordan.They moved in synchronization, each player finding a seam orangle to the rim.
Yes, Jordan scored more points than anyone else,24.
But he invariably does that.
To elevate his contributions abovethose of his teammates would not do justice to the symphony theBulls were playing.The Bulls played like the team the Jazz used to be: patient,poised and potent with the ball in their hands.The Jazz also set futility marks for the largest loss in afinals game, surpassing Washington's 35-point blowout of Seattle in1978, and for the fewest number of field goals in a game (21) andpoints in a half (23).Stockton has not been a factor the past two games.
With Harper'sflailing arms and Pippen's ability to move his feet quicker thanthe Utah point guard can dribble, he could not get the Jazz offensekick-started.The end of the third quarter was a carbon copy of the firsthalf, with Harper and Scott Burrell throwing down dunks as theBulls bounded out to a 72-45 lead.
The building was electric, loudenough to make you wonder if the Jazz didn't feel like thetomato-can opponent in a heavyweight title fight instead of theworthy contender that deserved to be here.Sloan, who implied after Game 2 that his team was a bunch ofsofties, called a timeout and looked at his players as if he didnot know them.
The team that took care of Shaquille O'Neal's Lakersin four straight games to win the Western Conference championshiphad been reduced to the Denver Nuggets playing here in January.Sloan tried everything.
He inserted Greg Ostertag into thestarting lineup for Greg Foster.
He implored his reserves to shakethings up and be active when they went into the game.After struggling mightily from the field in the first two games,Malone got out of the gate quick.
He made his first six shots 12of Utah's 14 first-quarter points and helped the Jazz ease thetransition into a hostile arena.But his teammates offered no help early.
Only two other Jazzplayers had field goals through the first 15 minutes.
If it wasn'tcareless turnovers, the best-executing team in the game was giventhe guillotine by Chicago's menacing defense.The travel time and lack of rest from playing 48 hours earlierwas supposed to account for sloppy play on both ends, but the Bullslooked more precise and poised than they had since the finalsbegan.It was as if they had used the first two games to collectthemselves, to remember what it was like to be in control of aseries and not give ground to a challenger.
Maybe it was Pippenstill trying to fool with Malone's mind.Pippen has boasted before about his team's prowess.
But neverbefore has he made such a brash prediction as the one he made as hewas leaving the Delta Center in Salt Lake City on Friday night.Jean Tower Rennie, the founder of the Collateral Dames, one ofthe first women's investment clubs in the United States, died onMay 31 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84.
The cause washeart failure, her family said.Mrs.
Rennie was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 3, 1914, the daughterof Edwin Tower and Bessie Applegate Tower.
Her mother's family wasinstrumental in the founding of Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky.Mrs.
Rennie attended the Downer Seminary in Milwaukeeand Collegiate School in Louisville and graduated from VassarCollege in 1935.
Although she had no formal training in finance,Mrs.
Rennie's lifelong interest in the stock market led to theorganization of the Collateral Dames in 1957.
In the 15 years ofits existence, the club attracted chief executive officers andeconomists to Milwaukee as speakers.
Club members also spent a weekin New York, at the invitation of the New York Stock Exchange andseveral leading companies.Mrs.
Rennie and her husband, William Roxburgh Rennie, amanufacturers representative, were married in 1940.
They wereactive supporters of the English Speaking Union, an organizationthat promotes relations between the United States and Britain, andafter her husband's death in 1985, Mrs. Rennie succeeded him on theboard of the organization.Survivors include a son, Roxburgh Rennie of Providence, R.I.; adaughter, Missie Rennie Taylor of Manhattan, and fivegrandchildren.
Samuel Jackson Lanahan, an authority on tax law who was a GoldenGlove eastern division champion in 1940, died on May 29, aftersuffering a pulmonary embolism at his vacation home in Dartmouth,England.
He was 79 and lived in Trappe, Md.Lanahan was a founding partner, in 1954, of Clark Lanahan, alaw firm in Washington that merged with Wilmer Broun and, in1962, joined other firms to become Wilmer, Cutler Pickering.
Hewas a partner for 19 years and head of the London office for threeyears.
He retired in 1981.Lanahan was born in Baltimore on Nov. 11, 1918, attended St.Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and graduated from PrincetonUniversity in 1941.
In World War II, he was a navigator in theNavy.
He graduated from Columbia Law School in 1947.He married Frances Scott Fitzgerald, the daughter of F. ScottFitzgerald, in 1943.
They were divorced in 1968, and he latermarried Sheila Nevius.
He is survived by his wife; a son, Samuel,of Corvallis, Ore.; two daughters, Eleanor Anne Lanahan ofBurlington, Vt., and Cecilia Lanahan Ross of Kennett Square, Pa.;two stepchildren, Theodore Nevius of Washington and KatherineNevius of Arlington, Va.; a brother, William Wallace Lanahan Jr. ofBaltimore; his stepmother, Eleanor Addison Miles of Queenstown,Md., and eight grandchildren.
CHICAGO Indulge me while I clear out the Belmont Stakesresidue, but I do not see Michael Jordan and the Bulls fading inthe homestretch with another Triple Crown now in sight.First of all, the trailer has to believe it has the ability tocatch up, but from the sight of the Utah Jazz in the second halfhere on Sunday night, what we appear to have on our hands is apre-race favorite running without faith.The Jazz did not quit Game 3 of the National BasketballAssociation finals.
They were dismissed from it.
The only maildelivered was the game itself, post-marked by the Jazz, Salt LakeCity.
Just when people were forecasting photo finishes betweenteams rated evenly matched, the Bulls wiped the Jazz out of thepicture, winning by 96-54 and taking a 2-1 series lead.Same shots he always takes, the Jazz say.
Same ones he alwaysmakes.
The problem with that rationale is that it fails toacknowledge the psychological component of trying to wrest thecrown off Jordan's head.
This is not the typical opponent.
This isnot the normal setting.
This is not the ordinary challenge, andthat not only goes for Malone but for the entire Utah team.In the case of its best player, from the time Malone has beenplaying basketball on the national level, he has been thequintessential outsider, the muscular kid from a college, LouisianaTech, best known for its women's teams.
As a pro, he has beenlooked at by many of his peers as the Brother From Another Planet.The African-American superstar who revels in the whitest of all NBAmarkets, the big country biker and trucker who wouldn't be caughtdead dropping off a Mercedes with the trendy valet.Mailman Malone stands alone, unless he is communing with JohnStockton on the pick-and-roll.
That has been his message, and hehas delivered his share of politically incorrect diatribes, onsubjects ranging from Magic Johnson's popular return in 1992 (hethought it wasn't a good idea) to the league's formerly hailed drugpolicy (he thought it wasn't getting the job done).
But these lasttwo springs, finally making it to the finals and the league'spremier stage, Malone has found himself face-to-face with theultimate establishment icon.
It has become immeasurably difficultto have his say in the face of true greatness.Malone, the man the Jazz must follow to win, tried on Sundaynight to make a statement, clearing his throat by hitting his firstsix shots.
He scored 12 first-quarter points, but when he looked upat the scoreboard, the Jazz had 14 and were trailing by 3.This raised another sobering issue: the Bulls' ability tocontrol Stockton's dribble penetration with their long-limbeddefenders.
Stockton is not as quick as he used to be, and thisbecomes much more noticeable against a tough-minded EasternConference team with a big, physical presence like Ron Harper thanit does against those sprouts-and-tomato defenders out West.
Elvis'team contests the kings of pick-and-roll a bit better than theLakers did, and Malone pays the price on the back end.Over the last six minutes of the second quarter, the Jazz'soffense devolved into the Knicks'.
Malone became quiet after DennisRodman relieved Luc Longley.
In one embarrassing run of wastedpossessions, Malone ran over Scottie Pippen on the break, BryonRussell turned a simple and uncontested inbounds pass to Stocktoninto a backcourt violation, Stockton lost the ball deep in thelane, Malone traveled in the post, then he threw up an air ball offa runner in the lane.Get the picture?
Jordan and Toni Kukoc did, immediately abusingtheir men off the dribble, rocketing the lead to 18 by the half andcreating visions of another trophy ceremony by late Friday night.When Kukoc penetrates the way he did on Sunday night, forget it,Chicago's panting sportswriters may as well begin the campaign tokeep this group together another five years.Stockton most ominously finished with more turnovers (5) thanpoints (2).
There were uncontested Chicago dunks.
Jordan and Pippenrested on the bench with impish smiles that gave way to raucouslaughter.
The Bulls were cruising, in control of the series, aheadin the backstretch.A major event had to be canceled the day before it was scheduledto take place.
Two fighters (Akinwande and Ray Mercer) testedpositive for hepatitis B. Maria Nieves-Garcia couldn't fightbecause she's 21 months pregnant.
And Roberto Duran had his pursegarnished in a child-support case.One, why isn't medical testing done well in advance of majorfights to avoid last-minute cancellations?
Didn't we learn anythingfrom the scheduled Tommy Morrison-Arthur Weathers fight in 1996,which was canceled the day of the event when Morrison testedpositive for the virus that causes AIDS?Holyfield and Akinwande (who were to make $10 million and $2.5million, respectively), the promoters, Showtime, cable distributorsand many more stand to lose a fortune because of an ill-advisedpolicy on testing.
(And that doesn't take into account fans whomade travel plans and purchased tickets, for which they presumablywill get refunds.
)New York, where the fight was scheduled to be held Saturday,requires that test results be submitted a minimum of five daysbefore the fight.
(California requires a test for hepatitis B 30days before licensing but requires testing only once a year.
)Why not?
To protect everyone involved, athletic commissionsacross the nation should require that test results be submitted amonth before !ital!major!off!
fights or no license.
Simple as that.If that means a foreign fighter must fly into the United Statessolely to take the test, so be it.
Again, it would serve everyone including that fighter.However, the Holyfield-Akinwande fight was made months ago.
Evenwithout appropriate policies, the fighters could've should've!
had their tests in long ago.
Holyfield's were submitted weeks ago,Petrillo said, while Akinwande (who fights out of Orlando, Fla.)was tested Tuesday.In Akinwande's case, the disease was at the infectious stage,according to a doctor who studied the fighter's blood sample.Without testing, it seems, Holyfield would've been at risk.
At thesame time, all those who have worked closely with Akinwande including sparring partners !ital!were!off!
at risk.Well, if the powers that be are smart, they will after this.
Andthat includes California, which might want to test more frequently.Looking forward: Oscar De La Hoya, who defends his WBCwelterweight title against unknown Frenchman Patrick Charpentier onSaturday in El Paso, Texas, reiterated his desire to fight FelixTrinidad in what would be an attractive non-heavyweight bout.Arum, his promoter, said he met with Trinidad's handlers lastweek.
However, these are the early stages of negotiations.Arum said he might be willing to guarantee Trinidad more moneythan De La Hoya, but De La Hoya would get a percentage of theprofits.Trinidad claims he no longer is under contract to promoter DonKing, but Arum said that's not so clear, which complicatesnegotiations but isn't necessarily an insurmountable obstacle.Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carterfamily dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday atVanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70and lived in Dickson, Tenn.She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems thatbegan over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, thebusiness office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, andof her sister June Carter Cash.The original Carter Family band, which helped kick-start thecountry-music record industry in 1927, was begun by A.P.
Carter, arailroad worker and farmer from Maces Springs, Va.; his wife, Sara,and Sara's cousin, Maybelle.
The band grew with the occasionaladdition of Maybelle's children, including Helen.The family band lasted from 1927 to 1943, and it was ofinestimable importance to American music.It disseminated traditional songs, established a widely imitatedsmall-group sound and built a set of templates that country,bluegrass and folk musicians would draw upon the mountain hymn,the love ballad, the cowboy tune and so on.In 1943 Sara quit singing for good, and Maybelle started a newband, Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, with her daughters aspermanent members.Helen was 12 when she was introduced to the world over theairwaves of XET in Monterrey, Mexico, and in her teen-age yearsbecame the most dependable musician of her mother's band, playingaccordion, guitar and autoharp.In the 1960s and '70s, she often appeared on radio andtelevision not as a member of a working group but simply as amember of the famous clan.
For example, she appeared on televisionwith her sister June and Cash.In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she issurvived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; anothersister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, GlennDaniel, David Lawrence and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, andsix grandchildren.The USGA, which along with the Royal Ancient is the officialrules-making body for all of golf, has decided the new, space-ageequipment on the market today threatens the integrity of the game.And the USGA is determined to do something about it, targeting suchproducts as titanium drivers and long putters.Fighting words, to be sure.
But what do they mean?
No officialproposal has been released, but the word is out that the USGA isstudying a number of changes in equipment rules, including acrackdown on titanium drivers, setting a limit for lofts in irons,banning long putters, limiting the lengths of shafts, and reducingthe maximum number of clubs allowed in a bag from 14 to 12.USGA officials also have hinted they will have a significantannouncement on the proposal as early as the U.S. Open, which willbe June 18-21 at the Olympic Club in San Francisco.
No officialdecision to change the Rules of Golf could be made until the USGAand the RA meet for the Quadrennial Rules Conference in 2000.In the meantime, the major golf manufacturers have respondedswiftly and angrily.
Callaway Golf, makers of the Great Big Berthaand Greatest Big Bertha titanium drivers, which would be on theUSGA's extinction list if the rules were adopted, issued a 3{-pagenews release announcing it would join with other companies inopposing any such USGA rulings banning modern clubs.
In addition,Callaway bought full-page ads in the New York Times, USA Today andGolf World to present its position.But while the USGA is threatening and the manufacturing world isreeling, the one organization that would be most affected if allthe new changes were adopted is taking a wait-and-see attitude.The weekend hackers who dished out $500 a pop for a Big Berthadriver might be disappointed if their weapon of choice is taboo.But those golfers trying to make a living using the same driver onthe PGA Tour have considerably more to lose.The PGA Tour is its own organization, separate from the USGA,but it follows the rules as set down by the USGA.
And PGA Tourofficials don't see that changing in the future, regardless ofwhich way the USGA rules on the equipment issue.In other words, any sweeping changes in equipment rules made bythe USGA for their own competitions would also affect the events onthe PGA Tour as well.
The pros could kiss their titanium drivers,long putters and perimeter-weighted irons goodbye.Some PGA Tour pros, such as The Woodlands Jeff Maggert, find ita little hard to believe the USGA would go to such lengths.Maggert agreed technology has come a long way in recent years.But in his mind, the length of the putter and the type of thedriver make less of a difference than the size and condition of theathlete using it.Yet despite his disapproval of the USGA's proposals, Maggertremained firm in his belief that if the USGA changes the rules, forbetter or worse, the PGA Tour needs to follow them.LOS ANGELES At first glance, when the Anaheim Angels took USCace Seth Etherton with the 18th pick in last week's Major LeagueBaseball amateur draft, it was a bit shocking.True, by the end of USC's national-championship run, Ethertonwas considered one of college baseball's most polished pitchers.After he beat defending national champion Louisiana State onThursday in a must-win game in Omaha, Neb., he was 13-3 with an ERAhovering around 3.00 and 182 strikeouts, a Pacific-10 single-seasonrecord.Still, the Angels taking a senior with little bargaining powerso high in the draft was surprising.
It will give Etherton andadviser Craig Landis an extra leg to stand on when negotiations getunder way.
A closer look, however, reveals the Angels' motivationsare not totally without foundation.
Etherton was burned in contractnegotiations a year ago after St. Louis made him a ninth-round pickand he is eager to navigate an easier path this time around.
Itwill be easier knowing it takes less than a half-hour to get fromEdison Field to his parents' home in Dana Point, where he wasreared on Angels baseball.As important is the Troy Glaus phenomenon.
The Angels' firstpick a year ago held out all summer long, missing out on a fullminor-league season.
Some think it cost him a spot on the big clubthis season.
Etherton will be much easier to pin down.Also notable, the Angels realize that Glaus has made headlinesthis season not only because of his numbers he had aminor-league-high 19 homers (more than 30 other minor-league!ital!teams!off!)
at the time of his call-up last week to Triple-AVancouver but also because he went to nearby UCLA.Second time's the charm: It was just before the 1995 season thata struggling shortstop mired in the depths of the Detroit Tigersorganization decided to make a change.Now, just three years later, Bryan Corey is a major-leaguer.
Hewas recently called up by his new club, the Arizona Diamondbacks,as a pitcher.Corey, 24, hit .128 in 180 at bats when he and the Tigersdecided he should be getting batters out, not being a batter thatgot out.
By 1996, he was 6-4 with a 1.21 ERA and 34 saves forSingle-A Fayetteville, thanks in part to a mean sinker.
Last year,he was 3-8 with nine saves at Double-A Jacksonville.The D'Backs liked what they saw, taking him in the third roundof the 1997 expansion draft.
At the time of his call-up, he was 3-0with a 1.77 ERA.
In three appearances with the big club, he hasallowed four earned runs and six hits in four innings.Full speed ahead: With the draft complete, the short-seasonSingle-A leagues and rookie leagues will blossom from nothingnessto full-roster status for Opening Day II June 16.First-year players accrued from the draft and free-agentsignings will report to two Single-A leagues (New York-Penn Leagueand Northwest League) and two Rookie League teams (AppalachianLeague and Pioneer League).Attorney General Janet Reno made the right call in preservingthe right of Oregon residents to seek physician-assisted suicide inthat state.
Last November, Thomas Constantine, the administrator ofthe federal Drug Enforcement Agency, announced that doctors inOregon who acted under that state's assisted suicide law would besubject to severe federal sanctions, including revocation of theirright to prescribe drugs.
The DEA is responsible for enforcingfederal drug laws, but it has no right to substitute its ownjudgment for the judgment of Oregon voters who resoundinglyaffirmed their support for the state's Death With Dignity Act by a60 percent vote last November.Unfortunately, leaders of the right-to-life movement are seizingon the assisted-suicide issue as they have on abortion.
Rep. ChrisSmith of New Jersey, a vociferous opponent of abortion rights, hassaid there will be efforts in Congress to undo Ms. Reno's decisionon the Oregon case.
As in the reproductive rights arena,conservatives who otherwise oppose federal control are eager tosubstitute their moral judgments for those of local voters when theoutcome is not to their liking.The nation is beginning to grapple with an individual's right tocontrol how a life ends.
A national poll last fall showed that 68percent of respondents supported physician-assisted suicide.Oregon's law is likely to be replicated in other states.
Ms. Reno'sdecision allows voters in all states to act according to theirvalues.CHICAGO There is something crusty and hardened about JazzCoach Jerry Sloan, something that is as rugged as the farm life heprefers.
Out of this personality was born a player who used tocrash to the floor for every loose ball and defend with a clenchedjaw as a Chicago Bull, once upon a time.So it had to rip at his callous fiber to see how unequipped hisJazz team was to counter the snarling defense of a Bulls team thatall but kicked sand in the face of his passive players on Sundaynight at the United Center.With their crew cuts and Scout badges, good manners andaccounting degrees, the Jazz played the part of a team from theWestern Conference typically overwhelmed by a physical East teamthat hit and hit hard.
When it was over, the Jazz went whimperingaway after being humiliated, 96-54, in Game 3 of the NationalBasketball Association finals.
The Bulls now have a 2-1 lead in thefour-of-seven-games series.The Jazz was simply bludgeoned by an aggressive defense thatleft the team with 26 turnovers, and pushed aside as it founditself on the wimpy side of a 50-38 rebounding advantage for theBulls.
The Jazz was from the West, all right: all talent, no grit.Instead of countering with toughness, the Jazz settled forpassive jumpers, rushed their plays and fell right into the handsof a Bulls' team that was driving to the basket and pressuring theball.It started with Ron Harper and Scottie Pippen (two steals).
ThenToni Kukoc and Dennis Rodman joined in.
Early on, Harper and Pippenapplied ball pressure that overwhelmed even the calmest of Jazzplayers, such as John Stockton.
At times, Harper and Pippen woulddouble up on Stockton at half court, cutting down on his ability toget his team into a pick-and-roll mode.
The more pressure Harperand Pippen applied, the more Stockton unraveled.By the end of the first half, Stockton had an uncharacteristicfour turnovers, three in a disastrous second quarter.
This is whenthe Bulls provided the squeeze on the Jazz.
In the second quarter,the Jazz turned the ball over nine times.The Bulls didn't let up.
Pippen was relentless as he roved thecourt, using his long arms to disrupt Stockton's passing lanes andto interrupt any driving layups by the Jazz.
At one point, heplanted his body in front of a charging Karl Malone and took acharge in the second quarter just as the Jazz started to wobble.The Bulls stopped the Jazz in its tracks with a defense that wasquick and irritating, especially when it came to Malone.After Malone made his first six shots the bulk of which camearound an immobile Luc Longley in the first quarter Coach PhilJackson sent Dennis Rodman onto the scene at the end of the firstquarter.Once Rodman stepped onto the floor, Malone lost his edge.
Hecould not spin by Rodman.
He had to score around him as elbowspoked his back and knees banged his shins.
Malone made just two ofhis next five shots and had seven turnovers.As Pippen, Harper and Rodman applied pressure, Kukoc wasthrowing himself on the floor looking for loose balls and reachingin to strip the Jazz.
He ended the game with six rebounds and foursteals.He was the perfect complement to a defense that left the Jazzlooking just like any other team from the West usually looks whenfaced with the grizzled teams from the East: physically outmatched.LOS ANGELES Hard to guess this early which will end up as the!ital!piece de resistance!off!
of Web sites once the !ital!Coupe duMonde!off!
begins in France this week.Maybe the best way to approach it is stick to a few basics untilyou've decided just how much information you're willing to accept.The official World Cup site: In English and French, this site(www.worldcup98.org) has what you'd expect without too muchadvertising clutter.
Did you know there are 704 playersparticipating?
Find all their names here.
In the store, thecheapest thing you can pick up (depending on the exchange rate) isa set of five marbles with the little Woody Woodpecker mascot for$2.69.The official U.S. soccer site: Mostly full of press releasesdisguised as stories about what's going with the American team(www.us-soccer.com), but that can be enough to satisfy those whoaren't interested in negative publicity about the team.The best English resources: Since ABC and ESPN have the U.S.broadcasting rights, expect ESPN's SportsZone(http://espn.sportszone) to supplement the event.
It already has acontest (like the NCAA Tournament pool) in which you can pick thefinal 16, then finish off the bracket.
The other recommended sourceis by by Yahoo!
(http://soccer.yahoo.com/wc98), which providesplenty of depth.The instant goal site: Sign up for free at this place(www.kgoal.net) and they'll send you an e-mail every time a goal isscored during the 64 games.
Which could be as many as 12 e-mails!In English, French, Spanish, Swedish or Dutch.
You can alsounsubscribe if the service is getting you in trouble at the office.Meanwhile: On the official NBA site (www.nba.com) the newest toyis called NBA.cam, which allows computer users to watch the NBAFinals through one of four small robotic cameras placed in theDelta Center in Salt Lake City and the United Center in Chicago.
Ifsomeone else is already playing with the cameras, you get to seewhat they're looking at....There is England the remarkably successful self-describedkeeper of the sport where controversial decisions and rabid fansare as abundant as ever.There is Colombia, a soccer hotbed of South America, wherepassions run so deep that four years ago a player was killed,reportedly by mobsters, after an own-goal against the United Statesled to the Colombians' ouster from the tournament.There is Romania, a classic Eastern European side withexperience, talent and flawless execution.
And there is Tunisia, agroup of creative North Africans with a style all its own.It stands to reason, then, that picking a winner out of thisgroup has proved more difficult than last December when thesenations were drawn together.After the World Cup draw, England was penciled in almostimmediately as the team to beat in Group G. But not so fast.
Afterplaying well throughout qualification last year, obviouslydetermined to make up for failing to qualify for the World Cup in1994, the English side has since struggled on the field and made ahugely controversial decision off it.Paul Gascoigne, a popular player whom many consider the greatestmidfielder in England's history, was cut from the World Cup rosterlate last month by coach Glenn Hoddle.
The move stunned the nationand spawned numerous debates across England and within the team.Gascoigne was the only player on the English roster with World Cupexperience, from England's semifinals appearance in 1990.
He alsowas considered the only true playmaker.But on top of ankle and groin injuries that slowed Gascoigneduring World Cup training, he was a well-known carouser andadmitted hard drinker who regularly found himself on the cover ofthe British tabloids.That much became clear during recent English exhibition matches.After only one half of a game against Belgium last month, Gascoigneasked to be removed from the field, citing a leg injury.In the wake of Hoddle's decision and England's sluggish effortsin the exhibitions, British bookmaker Ladbrokes last weeklengthened the odds of England's winning the World Cup from 7-1 to8-1.Clearly, the English remain a threat not just to win the group,but the World Cup.
But they also need to regroup fast, or Colombiaand Romania could again leave the English wondering what happened.The Romanians might have the team on the biggest roll.
VeteransGheorghe Hagi, Gheorghe Popescu and Bogdan Stelea are performingwell in what should be this talented group's last hurrah.
Andremember, this is a team that defeated Colombia, the United Statesand Argentina four years ago before losing on penalty kicks toSweden.The qualifying competition was relatively weak this time for theRomanians, but they still went 9-0-1, and that's hard to ignore.Four years ago, many experts pegged this team to win thetournament before disaster struck.
Andres Escobar, the murdereddefender, will be a name forever etched in World Cup history.This time, Colombia has been a mere afterthought to manyhandicappers of the World Cup.
But many players off the 1994 teamreturn this summer in hopes of easing some of the bad memories.
Thelikes of Carlos Valderrama and Freddy Rincon might be a stepslower, but their skills remain.It should be a remarkably entertaining group, start to finish,with only the Tunisians likely to finish where expected at thebottom.Let the seller beware.
That appears to be a principal lesson inthe decision of Merrill Lynch to pay $437 million to settle civilsuits brought against it in the wake of the Orange County, Calif.,bankruptcy.Merrill Lynch warned Robert Citron, the county treasurer wholater pleaded guilty to securities fraud, that his strategy ofborrowing money to buy risky derivative securities for the county'sinvestment fund might blow up if interest rates rose, as they did.But Citron wanted to keep buying, and Merrill kept selling.Merrill was hardly alone in knowing the strategy was risky.
Ithad become a political issue in Orange County, but the countysupervisors, happy to spend the profits generated when the strategywas working, did not intervene.Merrill's settlements with the county and a water district thathad invested in the county fund serve as a warning to Wall Streetthat it may face penalties even if a customer voluntarily buyssomething that was inappropriate.Orange County had refused to calculate a market value of itsinvestments, and no one forced it to do so.
Had the decliningmarket values been readily available, the risks would have becomeclearer to the public much earlier.
Better accounting might havekept this debacle from happening.It is an odd conjunction of opposing political cultures.
Turkey,the emblem of secular governance in the Middle East, and Iran, theheartland of Islamic fundamentalism, are both resisting powerfulinternal political movements by prosecuting the mayors of theirlargest cities, Istanbul and Tehran.Istanbul's mayor, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was recently convictedof inciting hatred in a speech last year.
Tehran's mayor,Gholamhossein Karbaschi, just went on trial on corruption charges.In truth, the two men are being pursued less for what they said ordid than for what they represent, which is a strong desire amongtheir countrymen for a more inclusive, less rigid brand ofpolitics.In attacking the mayors, the rulers of Turkey and Iran haveshown a potentially fatal inability to practice moderation inpolitics.
The defenders of the faith in each nation will likelydiscover someday that in their unyielding pursuit of conformitythey only strengthened and radicalized the popular causes theyfeared and tried to suppress.In both prosecutions, the legal battle itself is just a skirmishin a broader struggle between ruling authority and a growingpolitical opposition.
In both cases, the mayors represent anopportunity for peaceful change that should not be lost.The rulers of Turkey and Iran would acknowledge no commonthread.
If anything, they would maintain that the two cases showhow different the countries are.
The generals who wield real powerin Turkey are determined to snuff out any Islamic politicalactivity, fearful it will undermine their secular state and evenlead eventually to an Iranian-style revolution.
The clerics who runIran are intolerant of civil authority and see it as a threat tothe Islamic code.But when the ideological and legal veneer is removed, the twocases are essentially about the same thing: extremism in thedefense of power.I saw this tendency when I visited Turkey and Iran last fall.
ATurkish general who denounced his country's main Islamic politicalparty was just as intransigent as a cleric in Tehran who opposedreform.
Though the two nations view each other as politicalantagonists, and their handling of religious matters could not bemore different, the Turkish generals and Iranian clerics areallergic to genuine democracy.
The generals are secularfundamentalists, the clerics Islamic fundamentalists.Erdogan's offense was not that he sowed discord, but that he wasa leader of the Welfare Party, the Islamic political organizationthat drew the largest number of votes in parliamentary electionsthree years ago.
The party briefly governed Turkey in a coalition,but was then displaced and ultimately outlawed at the behest of thegenerals.Karbaschi is an ally of President Mohammad Khatami, who waselected last year in an overwhelming protest vote against theclerical stranglehold in Iran.
Whether the mayor embezzled cityaccounts as charged may never be known.
What is clear is thatKhatami's opponents went after the mayor to weaken Khatami and hisreform program.Last November, when I boarded an Iran Air jumbo jet for theflight from Istanbul to Tehran, I thought I was about to traverse avast political expanse.
The differences of culture, language andhistory are indeed great.
But after a few days in Tehran, I foundthe politics of exclusion and control were not that dissimilar.
Itis a pity, for the people of Turkey and Iran have the energy andheart to fashion democratic societies, if they only had thechance.
In 1995, the Mariner turning point came on August 24th againstthe Yankees.
The M's came back to win and then took off on a moltentear, stealing the American League West and you know the rest.For any of the 41,514 fans who stuck around at the Kingdome,there was an opportunity to feel that same sort of hopeful rush.After trailing the Dodgers so badly all day, the Mariners sentthe winning run to the plate in the ninth.
An injured David Seguicame to pinch hit.
He had the bases loaded and the score was 7-4and you just know Segui, who has three career grand slams and afierce competitive drive that makes even Piniella proud, wanted tosmack his team over the top.But when Segui swung for strike three, the game ended with afrustrating abruptness, and so did the moment of Mariner optimism.It left you wondering with considerable good reason what theremaining 100 games of the season will bring.What will it take to turn around the 1998 Mariners?
What can bedone to salvage a season that has gone from World Series contenderto a disheartening but ever-more-obvious June surrender?There has to be an answer.
There has to be something that caninject some life, some hope into a club that should not be thisdown and out.Yet, as the losses mount and the season wilts, there is no clueabout what can be done.
The silence coming from the Mariners hasgrown deafening.In the wake of the decision last week to not trade RandyJohnson, Mariner officials have taken a bunker mentality, refusingto comment on what their mind-set is regarding their team and theiroptions.Their final word on the Johnson situation was that they won't betrading the lefty this season.
What this means is either the M'saren't telling the truth, or they are willing to let the Big Unitjust walk away after this season with the promise of gettingnothing for him except two draft picks.You wonder why so much time has gone by with no action beingtaken to make a fix.
The bullpen has crushed the Mariners' spirittoo many times.
The defense has gone from bad to worse, which iswhat happens to a team that's struggling.You would think the best time to make a change has already comeand gone, which makes you wonder why time is dripping like molassesand Woody Woodword's feet seem so stuck in all the goop.Does ownership think Woodward and Piniella have the players theyrequested in the offseason, so it's up to Woodward and Piniella toget the job done now with the personnel in hand?Are Piniella and Woodward, the team's vice president of baseballoperations, frustrated at what may have ultimately been anownership decision to not trade Johnson, since perhaps someonekeeps hoping the old Randy Johnson will just come out every fifthday and pitch his brains out?Is there such a split between Mariner ownership and the baseballside of the organization that the franchise is now incapable ofarriving at a decision about what changes to make?Although Piniella would not talk specifically, it seems as if heand Woodward have determined what changes they need to make.
Now,the urgent question is when and if those changes can be made.Meanwhile, evidence for the need of a shake-up keeps mounting.After a four-error loss to the Dodgers Saturday, Piniella promisedsome changes for Sunday's game.
But when he wrote up the day'slineup card, everything remained status quo.Joey Cora was back out at second base.
Russ Davis was on third.The two biggest culprits in the Mariners' American League-worstdefensive department were sent back out to do the jobs they werehired to do.With no depth either on the big club or down on the farm, theMariner skipper simply does not have the pieces necessary to shakethings up.It only takes one game to start a win streak.
A turnaround isconceivable, but not without some bold intervention.SEATTLE After suggesting Saturday night that some lineupchanges were in store, Mariner manager Lou Piniella stuck withbasically the same starters Sunday and got a similar result in theseries finale against the Los Angeles Dodgers.Gary Sheffield and Eric Karros slugged solo home runs and theDodgers blooped losing pitcher Jamie Moyer into submission during agame-clinching five-run rally in the sixth inning as the Marinersfell eight games below .500 (27-35) for the first time since endingthe 1994 season with a 49-63 record.The M's went down with a ninth-inning fight, scoring three runsand then loading the bases to bring the potential winning run tothe plate.
Sore-footed pinch-hitter David Segui struck out.Ken Griffey Jr. hit his 24th homer in the ninth but otherwisehad an rare dismal game striking out three times and misplaying aline drive into right-center field for his third error of theseason.Segui, the only lineup change and only because he has a soreright foot took three swings against Antonio Osuna, missing allthree.As they returned to their clubhouse, the Mariners continued torub their collective eyes in disbelief.
They left 13 morebaserunners on base.
And popups fell in front of Griffey and rightfielder Rob Ducey to fuel the Dodgers' big fifth inning.The Dodgers, who won the final two games of the interleagueseries, rode the solid pitching of starter Darren Dreifort foreight innings.
The right-hander, whom the Mariners reportedlyrequested in recent trade talks involving Randy Johnson, spacednine hits and got a superb defensive play by second baseman EricYoung, who deprived Edgar Martinez of a run-scoring single in thethird inning.Seattle was 0-for-7 with runners in scoring position untilRodriguez singled home Cora from third base in the seventh inning.Not quite, Jerry.
And a longer gape at the final score wouldexplain that the Bulls offense in Game 3 of the NBA Finals washardly the difference at United Center last night.Sure, the Bulls beat ragged the old cliche of defense winningchampionships.
Yep, the Jazz are tired of hearing about how goodthe Bulls are as they shoot for a sixth championship.By the way, after Sunday's fill in the discerning adjectivehere the Jazz are broken and picking up the pieces.It only seems as if Utah has been eliminated from the Finals.The series is far from over.
However, if ever was such a thing as acommanding 2-1 lead, the Bulls have just that.
(BBOX)Utah's point total was the fewest ever by a team in an NBAgame since the advent of the 24-second shot clock in 1954.
(BBOX)The Jazz made just 21 field goals and scored only 23points in the second half the fewest ever in an NBA Finals game.In addition, Chicago has never lost a playoff series aftertaking the lead.
Not only have they stolen the homecourt advantagein this series, Games 4 and 5 are at United Center.
The Bulls are8-1 at home in the playoffs.Malone watched the waning moments of Game 3 from the bench.
TheBulls led by 18 points at halftime and owned a 27-point advantageby the start of the fourth quarter.Chicago snatched the game's momentum with one simple yethard-to-do adjustment.
They controlled Malone and John Stockton,and the rest of Utah's pieces fell apart.Scottie Pippen's ability to roam and disrupt Stockton was thekey.
Pippen often defended whomever was an offensive liability onthe floor for Utah.
As soon as Stockton crossed midcourt, Pippendoubled off his man and ran toward Stockton.The strategy closed down the passing lanes and frustrated theNBA's all-time assists leader.
Stockton had seven assists and fiveturnovers.The pick and roll Utah methodically destroys opponents with wentstale.
Malone rebounded from poor performances in the first twogames and scored 22 points on 8-of-11 shooting.
But the Jazz hadjust 16 assists and shot 30 percent as a team.The Bulls even checked Malone, who hit his first six shots.Bulls coach Phil Jackson switched Dennis Rodman to guard Maloneinstead of Luc Longley.
Malone went just 2 of 4 in the second halfwith Rodman badgering him.There is, however, the small problem of when Chicago is runningits system to perfection.
That is the simplest explanation for lastnight a game in which the team with one of the game's bestoffensive players won with offense being an afterthought.In an era when hair color is no longer a fiat of nature but aroutine fashion choice, it is easy to forget that as recently asthe mid-1950s hair coloring was such an exotic exception to acultural norm that only 7 percent of American women dared dye theirhair, mainly actresses, models and other fast women.Once the lone female copywriter at the giant Foote, Cone Belding advertising agency, Miss Polykoff became the agency's lonefemale executive vice president, the toast of Madison Avenue andthe 1967 Advertising Woman of the Year.By the time she arrived at Foote, Cone Belding in time to takeover the new Clairol account in 1955, Miss Polykoff, who hadwritten her first advertising copy as a teen-age secretary atHarper's Bazaar, had long since established herself as a star inretail advertising, first for a series of department and varietystores, including Bamberger's and Kresge in Newark, then for NewYork agencies with retail accounts.Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above hercareer, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George Halperin.After he died in 1961, the agency doubled her salary twice in lessthan a decade, and when she retired in 1973 to open an agency underher own name she had been Foote, Cone's highest paid salariedemployee for many years.She is survived by two daughters, Laurie Zucker of Athens, Ohio,and Alix Nelson Frick of Manhattan, the president of Franklin SpierAdvertising; a sister, Lillian Ovberg of Glen Cove, N.Y., and threegrandchildren.GARDEN CITY, N.Y. His horse seemed to have won a Triple Crown.And then he seemed to have lost it, and then won it, and finally,he lost it, not by a nose, by a nostril.Now, six hours later, Mike Pegram, the Mount Vernon owner ofReal Quiet, stood at the end of a ballroom in a Long Island hotel,surrounded by a bottle of beer, a plate of shrimp and 300 of hisclosest friends.If there was an ache deep within Pegram at having come so closeto getting his maligned horse engraved in the sport's history only to lose so breathtakingly in the Belmont Stakes he didn'tbetray it.Pegram bounced in and out of the party he was throwing to hugold friends and trade war stories.They were there from Princeton, Ind., the place of his youth,old buddies like Rick Wheeler and Chuck Winters, whose fathers knewhis father.They were there from Mount Vernon, folks like Robbie Slayton,who caught Pegram's Little League fastballs from age 8 inPrinceton, and then moved out to join him in 1979.Michelle Slayton, his wife, was there.
Twenty-two years ago, sheinterviewed with Pegram for a job on the counter crew at theMcDonald's in Oak Harbor.
Today, she's director of operations forthe string of 22 fast-food outlets Pegram owns north of Seattle.Many of Pegram's longtime Mount Vernon friends were on hand,people like former Skagit County district court judge John Kamb andhis son Tommy, an attorney.Bob Baffert, Real Quiet's trainer, was there, and so was jockeyKent Desormeaux.
Bob and Beverly Lewis, owners of the 1997 Belmontbridesmaid, Silver Charm, also made it.For everybody, there was still a sense of numbness at what theyhad seen a few miles to the west at Belmont.
A horse losing theTriple Crown by a nose?
That's like Mark McGwire being denied RogerMaris' home run record on his last at-bat of the season on aleaping catch over the outfield wall.It will forever be alleged in many quarters that Desormeauxdidn't give Real Quiet the best ride, that he charged too early onthe demanding 1{-mile oval, and then he initiated the bumping.What a five-week trip it was for Real Quiet's people, especiallyfor the 46-year-old Pegram.
He was Jed Clampett on Rodeo Drive.
Herang the opening bell the other day on Wall Street.
He stopped tosleep when he could.A sniff short of history, Real Quiet will go down as the 14thhorse to win the first two legs of the Triple Crown before beingdenied here.
Bought for $17,000 at a yearling sale and unimpressiveas a 2-year-old, he may be recalled modestly unless he certifieshis excellence the next couple of years.Pegram's imprint may be more lasting.
His party was thepersonification of his tweaking of horse racing's establishment.
Heinterrupted a conversation once to join a dice game.Pegram hopes the industry doesn't miss the message of hiscampaign with Real Quiet.
Some 80,162 fans flooded the Belmont,second-largest crowd in the track's 93-year history.It is Pegram's contention that some of the lag in racinginterest has been caused by the industry's unresponsiveness to themasses.Will this experience change Pegram?
Will he be tempted to raisethe ante at a yearling sale in an attempt to hit it big once more?Now he was accepting a string of hugs and thanks for the party,and also for the ride.
He was having fun, the best way Mike Pegramknows to wash away the pain.LOS ANGELES Veronica Martinez spent five hours in a jail whereshe wasn't fed lunch and her cellmate was a drugged-out woman witha queasy stomach.Then she was led in handcuffs from her cell to a courtroom inL.A.
's San Fernando Valley.But the 25-year-old woman from the suburb of Tujunga was not acriminal suspect.
In fact, prosecutors said, she was the victim.She was the chief witness against her boyfriend, who was ontrial on a misdemeanor charge of punching her in January.
Like manywomen in similar positions, she did not want to testify.
The judgejailed her to make sure she took the stand.Martinez's case represents a trend that victims and defenseattorneys say has become all too common since the O.J.
Simpsoncase: In an effort to crack down on domestic violence, prosecutorsand judges are getting increasingly aggressive with victims whorefuse to testify or change their stories.These women may find themselves threatened with prosecution forfiling a false police report.
If they insist the original storythey gave police was a lie, then they are told they are guilty of acrime.And sometimes, albeit it rarely, women wind up in custody tomake sure they take the stand at trial.
A woman who misses a courtappearance might find police at her doorstep with a pair ofhandcuffs and a warrant.Municipal Court Judge Roy M. Carstairs jailed Martinez becausehe said her refusal to testify voluntarily would have sabotaged thetrial.Prosecutors say such tactics are designed to give victims aslittle control as possible over the outcome of a domestic violencecase.
That way the accused abuser can't wiggle out of a criminalcharge by intimidating his spouse or promising her he'll change.Bloomquist said her office requests body attachment in less than5 percent of all cases, and only when the woman makes clear shewon't come voluntarily.Critics find such tactics distasteful and paternalistic.
Theyaccuse prosecutors of assuming every victim who tries to recant istoo fearful or weak to decide what's in her own best interest.
Inno other type of crime, they argue, would the victim have so littlecontrol over how a case is handled.And defense lawyers argue that such tactics prevent women fromchanging the stories they initially told police even when thosestories were heat-of-the-moment exaggerations or outright lies.Deputy Public Defender Bill Weiss, who heads the Van Nuys officenorthwest of downtown Los Angeles, said one prosecutor routinelywould take the recanting witness into a small room and threaten herwith immediate arrest for filing false police reports.
Weiss saidhe learned about the practice after several women complained tolawyers in his office.Indeed, it's become a common refrain for women to say they'vebeen threatened with losing their children if they don't cooperate,defense lawyers say.Deputy District Attorney Pam Booth, who heads the DA's office innearby El Monte, said her office alerts the county's Department ofChildren's Services whenever a child is directly involved orwitnesses an act of domestic violence.
It's up to DCS to open aninvestigation, she said.Deputy Public Defender Robin Berkovitz cited a recent Downtowncase where her client was charged with threatening his formergirlfriend with a gun.
The woman later recanted, saying she wasjealous to see her boyfriend with another man.The woman took the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination ata preliminary hearing, preventing Berkovitz from being able toquestion her on the stand.
Her client later pleaded guilty to amisdemeanor and served 120 days in jail.The woman's presence at trial isn't always vital for aconviction, especially with a new law that permits a jury to hearcertain statements a woman made to police but who then isunavailable to testify.
The law was passed in response to theSimpson case.Still, in some cases prosecutors or judges decide the victimneeds to be in court.
A woman's presence is often important inmisdemeanor cases where police don't have any independent proof ofphysical injury.Such was the case at the trial of Luis Manuel Roman the one inwhich Martinez was the star witness.
In January, police arrestedRoman in Tujunga after Martinez called 911.
Roman is the father ofthree of Martinez's children.
He was on probation for hitting herin 1996.In the latest incident, police say Martinez told them Roman hither several times, according to Deputy City Attorney Jose Egurbide,who prosecuted the case.
She had no bruises or other signs ofinjury, Egurbide said.Last week, Martinez said she never told police he hit her.
Shesaid she called 911 because the argument was getting heated and shewanted him out of the house.Egurbide notes that Martinez also tried to change her story in1996.
He said he never threatened her, he simply advised her shemight need her own lawyer.With Martinez uncooperative, Egurbide decided to try the casewithout her.
Nonetheless, on April 9, in the middle of the trial,Carstairs ordered a body attachment for Martinez when she failed toshow up in court.
When she arrived the next day, the judgethreatened to jail her immediately but released her when shepromised to show up promptly the next morning.The next morning, she was late.
Carstairs ordered her intocustody until she testified later that afternoon.
The trial endedwith a hung jury and Roman received a 60-day jail sentence for aprobation violation.
He was released from custody last week.Before the trial, Martinez was studying to become a probationofficer.
She now works as a retail clerk.
She said the experiencechanged her mind about a career in criminal justice.Erika Cheetham, an English medieval scholar who made a fortunetranslating the predictions of the 16th-century physician andastrologer Nostradamus, who gazed not only at the stars but also,legend had it, into a brass bowl of water to see visions of thefuture, died on May 3 in London.
She was 58.They were on mass-market paperback best-seller lists for yearsin the United States, Britain and other countries, and, since thefirst book appeared in 1973, they have never been out of print.But being a closet Lutheran in a time of the Inquisitions heldto punish heretics, most of Nostradamus' prophesies were crypticand written in a mix of archaic French, Latin, Greek, Italian orEnglish.
Translators contended that the quatrains contained codes,anagrams, hints and fragments of meaning that, put together, werepredictions of coming events.
A reference to a figure named Histerwas taken as code for Hitler.Erika McMahon-Turner was born in London on July 7, 1939, adaughter of wealthy parents, Eric Turner, under secretary to theAdmiralty, and Helen Lilian McMahon Turner.
She attended a conventschool but was expelled for writing an essay contending that Goddid not exist.
She had an interest even then in the paranormal andthe prophetic.
Later, on gaining acceptance to St. Anne's College,Oxford, she cut a stylish, aristocratic figure, someone who wentriding with the Aga Khan and married a Grenadier Guard, JamesNicholas Milne Cheetham.After receiving her Ph.D. she became a staff writer for TheLondon Daily Mail.
She wrote an article on Nostradamus in 1961 andtwo years later began translating his work in earnest.Indeed, at the start of the 1990s at least 10 Nostradamus titleswere in print, and with the advent of the Persian Gulf war,bookstores in Britain and the United States were selling out, withtotal sales tripling in some cases.The dysfunctional-yet-dominant Bulls put an unprecedentedwhipping on the Utah Jazz and a stranglehold on the NBA FinalsSunday night with a record-breaking 96-54 Game 3 victory at theUnited Center.Chicago held the Jazz to the fewest points since the inventionof the 24-second shot clock (1954-55) while also producing the mostlopsided margin in Finals history.
The Jazz shattered the recordfor fewest points in a Finals game (was 71), eclipsed the recordfor fewest points in any game (was 55), set marks with 21 fieldgoals, 23 second-half points and easily topped the largest marginof defeat (was 35) via the 42-point debacle.It was clearly Chicago's best game of the playoffs, and Utah'sworst.
That toxic combination produced Bulls leads of more than 30points throughout the second half and swayed experts to nowconsider a Chicago four-game run a real possibility.
No home teamin NBA history has swept the middle three games under the 2-3-2format, but the Bulls have all the momentum heading intoWednesday's Game 4.The road to Chicago's Six-cess goes through its defense, whichtotally suffocated a Utah half-court offense considered one of thebest in the history of basketball.
The Jazz, looking more like theMavericks' anemic offense of the past two seasons, made 21 basketsand committed 26 turnovers.The Bulls smothered the Jazz during a first half in which Utahalmost totally unraveled offensively.
Even the usually unflappableJohn Stockton became frazzled, committing four turnovers and twosilly fouls in the last minute of a half that ended with Chicagototally in control at 49-31.Malone drilled his first six shots, but then went scoreless thelast 15:32 of the half against Dennis Rodman's more aggressive,physical defense.
Seemingly in an unstoppable rhythm against LucLongley early, Malone traveled, was called for a charge andlaunched an awful airball jump-hook in his only second-quarter shotagainst Rodman.Chicago, dedicated to keeping Stockton out of the middle, alsowas successful in taking the Jazz out of its pet pick-and-roll.Scottie Pippen roamed off Utah's ineffective centers, allowing himto trap Stockton toward the sideline just past mid-court.
Jazzplayers not named Malone missed 19 of their first 20 shots including 11 in a row as Chicago scored the last eight points ofthe first quarter for a 17-14 lead.Two driving runners by Pippen took the lead to seven, from whichpoint the Bulls' Doberman Defense took over.
Perennialall-defensive team members Rodman, Jordan and Pippen attacked andstifled Utah into missed layups and an embarrassing back-courtviolation by Stockton.
At one point, the rattled Jazz had 26 pointsand 16 turnovers as they were only able to run seven first-halfpick-and-rolls for eight points.The exclamation point came late in the half as Scott Burrell andRon Harper made steals that led to four points in the final 19seconds to push the lead to 18.Surprisingly, the Bulls did make one mistake yesterday.
Theyshould have saved this classic performance for the series clincher.LOS ANGELES Going out on top with USC's College World Serieswin, recently deposed play-by-play man Larry Kahn andbroadcast/business partner Mike Lamb delivered fairly classyparting shots at the end of the broadcast on KPLS-AM (830) Saturday which probably whizzed right by anyone in the Valley who had nochance of picking up the reception from the Orange County stationon their transistors.
'Twas fitting that the last game Kahn was allowed to do as theradio voice of USC sports was a baseball game that ended up with afootball score....
Fearing a Sports I!llustrated piece in the works will onlyfurther besmirch Garrett's reputation, USC has sent out apreemptive strike.
Senior VP Dennis Dougherty's office dashed off amulti-page memo to certain SC alums, explaining how some higher-upshave been interviewed for this probably slanted story by Don Yeager(publishing date unknown).
They also issued a statement signed byschool prez Steven Sample and other esteemed colleagues pledgingfull support for Garrett....ANAHEIM Dante Bichette's fly ball to medium left field had thefans at Edison Field streaming for the exits, if they hadn't leftalready.Trailing by two runs, the Colorado Rockies were down to theirlast out, and Anaheim Angels left fielder Darin Erstad pounded hisglove in anticipation of the club's eighth consecutive victory.
Theproblem was, Erstad never saw the ball in the twilight sky.
Itlanded untouched and two baserunners scored on the play to tie thegame at 5.Bizarre?
Not as bizarre as the bottom of the ninth inning, whenthe Angels managed to pull out a 6-5 victory Sunday before 42,493at Edison Field.The Angels won the game in the bottom of the ninth when JimEdmonds scored from third on a wild pitch that got pastshortstop-turned-catcher Neifi Perez.
Perez was forced into playingcatcher after the Rockies pinch-hit for starter Kirt Manwaring inthe top of the ninth, and backup catcher Jeff Reed got knocked outof the game in a home-plate collision with Dave Hollins earlier inthe bottom of the ninth.Hollins opened the bottom of the ninth with a walk off JerryDipoto, and Edmonds followed with a liner into the right-centerfield gap.
Third base coach Larry Bowa waved home Hollins, whoinitiated a nasty collision with Reed.
Reed held on to the ball buthad a bad cut on his right cheek.Baylor has two emergency catchers Jason Bates and GregColbrunn but both had already played in the game and were takenout.
Baylor decided to move Perez to catcher because he has goodhands.
Perez said he had caught when he was 13, about 10 years ago.Dipoto walked Tim Salmon intentionally to bring up CecilFielder.
On a 1-1 count, Dipoto threw a slider in the dirt and itgot away from Perez, allowing Edmonds to score the game-winner.The win was the Angels' eighth in a row, their longest winningstreak since a 10-game streak July 5-17 last season.
The victoryalso moved the Angels (34-26) to within 2{ games of first-placeTexas in the AL West, the closest they've been since May 8 whenthey were two games out.
But this was most certainly the strangestin the streak.Angels reliever Rich DeLucia was deprived of his first save ofthe season when Erstad lost Bichette's fly ball, but he wasn'tabout to blame anyone.Many Angels said the ninth inning was one of the weirdestinnings they've ever played in, but not Hollins, who played for thePhillies in the early 1990's.Included among Utah's playoff losses this season: a then-record62 points in a 21-point setback in Game 3 against San Antonio inthe Western Conference semifinals on May 9, and setting all kindsof negative records including fewest points ever in a game andworst margin of defeat in Sunday night's Game 3 Finals loss to theBulls.The Jazz responded to the awful against the Spurs by winningGame 4 the next day, then reeling off seven consecutive victories.Despite Sunday night's unprecedented debacle, they were alreadytalking about a revival in Wednesday's Game 4.Some players and even coach Jerry Sloan mentioned they willuse Chicago's fourth-quarter performance as motivation.
The Bullsrested their starters, but reserves Steve Kerr and Jud Buechlertook and made 3-pointers even after the lead climbed past 35.Perhaps, despite the odds, the Worm is turning.
Tammy Castillo,a mother of three from Twin Falls, Idaho, claims Dennis Rodman isthe only of 50 professional athletes to oblige her requests of anautograph for her autistic son.
Rodman apparently sent the familyan autographed jersey and a basketball signed by each of the Bulls.... Jordan produced his signature move of the series in the thirdquarter.
While being tackled by 7-foot-2 center Greg Ostertag, hestayed in the air long enough to flip up a right-handed reverselayup that swished through the hoop.
ALL THAT JAZZFoster has been a non-factor, producing only two points in 45minutes in the Finals.
...
The Jazz have been miserable in thefourth quarter, getting outscored, 67-36.
... Ostertag started atcenter in an attempt to help clog the defensive lane, but hestruggled with his vision because of a contact lense problem andstruggled with his layups because of coordination problem.
... Forthe first time this season, the Jazz has lost consecutive gameswith John Stockton in the lineup.
INSIDE THE NUMBERSLorne Welch, a crack British glider pilot and yachtsman whoplayed parts in two of the most storied escapes by Allied prisonersduring World War II, died on May 15 at his home in Farnham,England.
He was 81.Later, as a prisoner at Colditz, the 700-room Saxon castle theNazis used to hold incorrigible escape artists, he helped design atwo-man glider with a 32-foot wingspan that was to be launched fromone of the castle's towers.
It was never tested because theprisoners were liberated by American troops before an attempt couldbe made.After the war, Welch became the first man to glide twice acrossthe English Channel and to fly with the British team in four worldgliding championships.As the son of a general in the British army, Welch seems to havegravitated to aviation in part as an act of rebellion against thefather who had named him Patrick Palles Lorne Ephinstone Welch.After secondary schooling at Stowe, Welch, who had an instinctfor solving technical problems but no formal training as anengineer, worked with both marine and aircraft engines, designedand built a sailing dinghy and flew gilders before joining theRoyal Air Force Volunteer Reserve just in time to qualify as aflight instructor at the outbreak of war in 1939.He might have remained safely on training duty if, in May 1942,the British had not announced plans to launch 1,000 bomber raids onNazi Germany, a strategy that required the services of virtuallyevery military plane and pilot.Welch first fell into German hands in 1942, when his planecrash-landed in a field in the Netherlands during his fourthmission.
Rather than flee, Welch chose to remain with his injuredbombardier and allowed himself to be taken prisoner.
After thewounded flier had been taken to a hospital, Welch made a bid forfreedom, breaking away at the Amsterdam train station.
But, whenhis pursuers fired into the crowd, he gave himself up in order tosave the lives of the civilians.Of the 76 men who made their way through Harry the night ofMarch 24, 1944, only 3 made it safely to freedom.
Of the 73 whowere recaptured, 50 were summarily executed on direct orders fromHitler, an atrocity that was avenged after the war when theexecutioners were caught and hanged for war crimes.For all his contribution to the great escape, Welch was notamong those who went through the tunnel.
Months earlier, on June16, 1943, he and 23 other officers pretending to be on delousingduty had simply walked out through the main gate, wearing fakeGerman uniforms made in a secret prison tailor shop.A week later, Welch and a fellow British officer found a Germanairfield and were on the verge of stealing a plane to fly to Swedenwhen they were surprised by the plane's crew, who might have takenthem prisoner had they taken a closer look at their uniforms.The next day the pair made a second attempt to steal a plane andthis time they were taken prisoner and packed off to Colditz.With its high thick walls soaring above mountain bluffs and withmore guards than prisoners, Colditz was considered escape-proof.But of 191 recorded escape attempts, 31 were successful.
Indeed,for all the German precautions, it was a tribute to the prisoners'ingenuity that it was not until half a century later that workmenfound a secret radio that had kept the prisoners abreast of warnews.By far the most audacious of the escape plots was theconstruction of a full-sized, two-man glider in a walled-offsection of the castle attic.
Welch used his technical expertise toverify that the glider made of bed slats covered withmillet-treated sleeping-bag cloth would withstand the stresses offlight, including being launched by a catapult powered by thefive-floor drop of a concrete-filled bathtub.Although the glider's design was later judged airworthy byaviation experts, what might have been the most spectacular escapeof the war was made unnecessary by the arrival of American forcesin April 1945.
As the Colditz guards watched in sheepish disbelief,Welch and other prisoners showed off the glider in the castlecourtyard.After the war Welch worked on rocket engines, then became agliding instructor and wrote several books on gliding.FRIDAY: KTLA's latest advertisement slogan is that it has theDodgers on EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT THIS SUMMER.
Know what?
They'reright.
Colorado at Dodgers, Channel 5, 7 p.m. (Also: Fox/Channel 11has Saturday's game at 1:05 p.m.; Fox Sports West 2 has Sunday'sgame at 1:05 p.m.)SATURDAY: The Capitals' incentive to win the Stanley Cup: Aninvite to the White House!
NHL Stanley Cup Finals: Washington vs.Detroit Game 3, ESPN, 5 p.m. (Also: Fox/Channel 11 has Game 1,Tuesday at 5 p.m.; ESPN has Game 2, Thursday at 5 p.m.).SUNDAY: Oh, there's gonna be a sixth game back in Utah, allright.
It's in NBC's contract with the NBA that Michael Jordan ismilked as much as possible.
NBA Finals: Chicago vs. Utah Game 6,Channel 4, 4:30 p.m. (Also: NBC/Channel 4 has Game 4, Wednedsay at6 p.m. and Game 5, Friday at 6 p.m.)No member of the defensive backfield is spared from trashtalking.
The locker room is infused with his hearty laugh andboastful jabs with teammates.And fellow Cowboys receivers are straining to keep up with hislegendary workout regimen, which has included extra pass patternsafter practice to become familiar with coach Chan Gailey's newoffense.Irvin, who is admittedly having an enjoyable and productiveoff-season for the first time in two years, said he is motivatedfor himself and his teammates.Irvin declines to discuss the multitude of strife in 1996 and1997 including him pleading no contest to felony drug possessioncharges, being suspended for the first five games of 1996 forviolating the league's substance abuse policy and then enduring theordeal of being falsely accused of sexual assault in 1997 leadingto last season's retirement talk that kept him from the Cowboys'past two off-season programs.And strange as it may seem, the story with Irvin heading intothe start of Cowboys training camp July 15 in Wichita Falls hasbeen all about football and how productive he could be in Gailey'snew offense after substandard performances the past two seasons.Irvin had the finest season of his career in 1995 when he caught111 passes for 1,603 yards and 11 touchdowns.
He followed that upwith 64 catches for 962 yards and two touchdowns in 11 games in1996 and 75 catches for 1,180 yards and nine touchdowns in 1997.That Irvin wants to play is certainly embodied by his unyieldingintensity and unmatched work ethic that teammates say has energizedthe locker room.Gailey fully understands that any distractions could havenegatively impacted the implementation of his new offense andpotentially sabotaged his inaugural season.
But Gailey said he isnot surprised by Irvin's positive influence; he expected nothingdifferent.Irvin credits much of his enthusiasm to the new coaching staffand Gailey's new offense, which will feature Irvin lining up in thebackfield and at slot receiver in addition to his regular outsidereceiver position.Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, cautiously appreciative for what sofar has been an off-season free of incidence from any of hisplayers, agrees.Jones says what can be said of Irvin can be said of the team onand off the field.
He believes the changed Cowboys will result inregaining some past glory in 1998.CHICAGO Watch them closely the rest of this week, because itmight be over before Saturday.Chicago's march toward a third straight title, and a sixth ofthis decade (is there any doubt it would be eight straight if notfor Michael Jordan's baseball flirtation?
), took a dramatic stepforward Sunday night at the United Center when the Bulls dismantledthe Utah Jazz, 96-54, to take a 2-1 lead in the NBA Finals.That's right, folks.
96-54.
Utah set a record for Finalsfutility, shattering the previous low score of 71 (last done byHouston against the Celtics in 1981).
It was the worst beating inthe history of the NBA Finals, surpassing Washington's 35-pointdrubbing of the Sonics in 1978.
Utah's point total was the lowestin the history of the post-shot-clock NBA.Perhaps the Jazz can rally like the Celtics did in 1984, winningthree of the last four after getting humiliated in Games 1 and 3.But this doesn't feel like that.
Working on nine days of rest,the Jazz had to go into overtime to beat the weary Bulls in Game 1,then lost Game 2 on their home court.
Sunday night the seriesshifted to the Windy City and there were stretches in the secondhalf when it looked like the Jazz were ready to roll over and quit.It would be difficult to overstate the magnitute of the beating.Chicago's vaunted defense completely smothered the Jazz.
Chicagoled, 17-14 after one, 49-31 at halftime, and 72-45 at the end ofthree.
Imagine a team in the NBA Finals scoring only 45 points inthree quarters?Malone came out of his shooting slump, connecting on eight of 11attempts, but he rarely saw the ball in the second half and histeammates shot 13 for 59 (22 percent) without him.
Credit Jordan,Scottie Pippen, and Ron Harper, the Bulls' Doberman Defense.
Pippenplayed free safety most of the night, destroying everything thatgot in his path.The worst patch for the Jazz came at the end of the third periodwhen Chicago's venerable veteran Harper (8 points, 10 rebounds)grabbed a quick rebound and fired a no-look full-court pass to abreaking Scott Burrell.
The immortal Burrell slammed it home tomake the score 66-42.
Utah came down and the frustrated Maloneimmediately was flagged for elbowing Dennis Rodman in the face.
Itwas Malone's fourth foul, and the Jazz called time to remove him.After the timeout, Jordan went into the low post and hit aturnaround over Chris Morris.
Then Rodman followed his own misswith his only 2 points of the night and it was a hideous 70-42.At the start of the fourth quarter, the Jazz had ShandonAnderson, Howard Eisley, Antoine Carr, Morris, and the immortalAdam Keefe on the floor.
Not one starter.
It was a message ofsorts.
This one was over, and Sloan, a proud warrior, already wasthinking about the next game.
Garbage time was particularly nastyfor the Jazz.
Jordan's services were not needed.The first period featured more bricks than one would find underthe ivy at Wrigley Field.
The Bulls made six of 18, while the Jazzstruggled to hit seven of 22 shots.Malone, after shooting 14 for 41 in the first two games of theseries, came out with something to prove and made his first fiveshots, four of them jumpers.
Unfortunately for the Jazz, no oneelse in purple could do much of anything and Utah fell behind,17-14, even though the Bulls shot only 33 percent.
Utah was worse.Take away Malone's 6 for 6, and the Jazz made only one of 16 shotsin the period.It was a testament to Bulls basketball.
Chicago missed 10 of itsfirst 12 shots, but still held serve.
Luc Longley scored ateam-high 6 point in the first quarter, and Harper snagged sixrebounds.
Malone had 12 of Utah's 14 points.
John Stockton had theother basket.The first two games of this series provided no warning forSunday night's massacre.
Now it's up to the once-favored Jazz tosee if they can respond with a victory in Chicago, or at least amore noble defeat.
Utah has too much experience, class, and dignityto go out like this.But the Padres did most of their damage in a six-run eighthinning with their bats on their shoulders.Danny Patterson relieved Eric Gunderson with one out and nobodyon in the eighth, after the Rangers had scored three runs in theseventh to tie the score, 6-6.
Patterson faced five batters andwalked four of them, forcing in two runs.
The other batter hefaced, Wally Joyner, bucked the trend and actually used his bat tohit a single.The walk on the wild side left Patterson with a rather uglylooking line: Five batters faced, no outs, one hit, four walks andfive earned runs, the final ones scoring when relievers TimCrabtree and Scott Bailes allowed the inherited runners to score.Patterson was not the only reliever who couldn't get the jobdone in the last two innings.
Crabtree allowed a hit to MarkSweeney that allowed two of Patterson's runners to score, andBailes allowed two hits that got home Crabtree's runner.
SteveFinley had four hits, including three doubles, and drove in fiveruns for the Padres.Al Levine, recalled from Triple-A earlier in the day when secondbaseman Mark McLemore went on the disabled list, allowed five runson five hits in the ninth.Overall, the four relievers allowed 11 runs on nine hits andfive walks in the final two innings, all after Will Clark'sthree-run homer in the seventh had brought the Rangers back from a6-3 deficit.It was an uncharacteristic performance.
The relief corps enteredthe game having earned six of the team's past 10 victories and hada 2.72 earned-run average in the past 13 games.
Coming into thegame, the Rangers had the lowest bullpen ERA in the league at 3.13.It also was an uncharacteristic performance from Patterson, whoentered the game with a 2.70 ERA.
The right-hander had walked fivebatters in 20 innings, and never had walked more than three in agame.But against the Padres, he found the strike zone with only eightof his 25 pitches.Even though there are no physical problems as a result of anoff-season shoulder operation, Patterson said he doesn't feel aswell as he did last season, when he was 10-6 with a 3.42 ERA in 54appearances.It didn't look like it would come down to Patterson and thebullpen when the Padres erased a 3-2 deficit with four runs in thefifth.
The big blow was a three-run homer by Greg Vaughn on abelt-high, hanging slider by Rangers starter Bobby Witt.The Rangers got back in it with Clark's three-run homer tocenter off Dennis Reyes, who was pitching in relief of Padresstarter Mark Langston.
But Dan Miceli then came in for Reyes, andheld the Texas batters in check.
BOSTON In the good times and bad, lefthander Steve Averyalways insisted he was a better pitcher than his time with the RedSox indicated.
Finally, it's starting to happen for him.What he did in his fourth start of the year, a 5-0 victory overthe New York Mets Sunday night at Fenway Park, was something theRed Sox have wanted to see for a year and a half.
He had prime-timestuff, using a revised motion.
Twice he snuffed out New Yorkrallies in situations where in the past he has folded like anaccordian.When Jimy Williams sent Avery out for a start last September, ittriggered an option year in the pitcher's contract.
The move wascontroversial, and the Sox had to hope he would overcome healthproblems and turn into a hurler who could give them some qualitystarts and innings.
Sunday night, he gave them his best outingsince a 3-1 victory over Cleveland last July 21, a seven-inningstint that helped Boston salvage the final game of a three-gameseries.When he went 7 2/3 innings against the Indians, Avery was anover-the-top fastball pitcher.
Sunday night, using a new releasepoint, he was more a crafty veteran.
In the fourth inning, justminutes after his teammates had just given him a 4-0 lead, Averyput runners on first and third with none out.
He escaped.
In theseventh, he put two runners on with one out, and again New Yorkfailed to score.
He left after throwing just 84 pitches.Avery's changeup and curve are more effective when his fastballis better.
He threw 24 changeups, 18 for strikes.
That's big for aguy who decided to give the new motion a try only last Tuesday inToronto.Avery retired the first nine batters he faced.
Then, in the topof the fourth, he gave up a 420-foot triple to Brian McRae and aninfield single to Edgardo Alfonzo, McRae holding.
But Avery gotBernard Gilkey to fly to short right, with both runners holding.And as John Olerud struck out on a 3-2 pitch, Hatteberg not onlycaught the foul tip but threw a bullet to second base, cutting downGilkey for a double play.The Sox put it away in the third, sending nine batters to theplate against Masato Yoshii, the veteran Japanese hurler.
All fourruns scored after two were out.Darren Lewis started it with a line single off the Wall.
Lewisstole second and scored on a single up the middle by ReggieJefferson.
Nomar Garciaparra doubled into the left-field corner,sending Jefferson to third.
After a walk to Vaughn, Troy O'Learyfollowed with a base hit to center, scoring Jefferson andGarciaparra and sending Vaughn to third.
Then John Valentin doubledto right, scoring Vaughn.There was Real Quiet, cruising strongly on a four-length lead inSaturday's Belmont Stakes after delivering the same devastatingblow that knocked out his opponents in the Kentucky Derby andPreakness Stakes.
He was surely cruising toward a place in history.Then, in a twinkling of an eye, Real Quiet was suddenly runningin slow motion when compared to the charging Victory Gallop.
Hiscommanding lead shrinking to three lengths, two, one and finally arandom bobbing of heads.He still could have won it, of course.
A jump before the wire,his head was down and Victory Gallop's was up, as the two horseswere in asynchronous strides.
A jump after the wire, his head wasin front, too.But at the only time and place that counted, Victory Gallop'shead was down at the precise instant the horses flashed across theBelmont Park finish.Before the race, more than a few handicappers picked againstReal Quiet simply because he didn't have the same uncommon talentas Secretariat or Seattle Slew or Affirmed.
Some instead choseVictory Gallop, others took Raffie's Majesty or even in a hugestretch of logic Parade Ground.
But the underlying theory was thesame: something unlucky or unexpected would occur to bring aboutReal Quiet's defeat.
The racing gods would see to that.Real Quiet became the only horse in the 130-year history of themile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes to blow a four-length lead in thefinal furlong.But for these racing gods, here is a warning: your power will besorely tested in upcoming years.As the modern thoroughbred continues to become increasinglyfragile due to indiscriminate breeding practices, horses such asSilver Charm and Real Quiet will pop up with regularity.
They don'tbreak watches or cause jaws to drop.
But the more expensive,fashionably-bred colts will continue to be exiled to the farm withcondylar fractures, bone chips or broken sesamoids only to begina stud career and beget even more unsound horses while the RealQuiets of the sport will succeed by virtue of their durability.Soon enough, one or more of these horses will slip through thefilter and win a Triple Crown.The right knee Ramos had torn up twice in less than a year wasstill as stiff and cranky then as the Tin Woodsman's.
US men'ssoccer coach Steve Sampson had his World Cup candidates in camp andthe clock was ticking.
Sampson had said he'd wait for Ramos untilthe 11th hour, but ...No promises.
No promises that the 31-year-old Ramos would get aspot on the 22-man roster.
And now that he's here, living with hisfellow Yanks in an ivy-covered castle in the middle of Beaujolaiscountry, there's no guarantee that Ramos will start when theAmericans take on Germany in Paris a week from Monday.Ramos's spot used to be in the middle of the intersection,dribbling and distributing.
But that was before he tore his ACL ina Cup qualifier at Trinidad two Novembers ago, then did it againlast fall.Now Claudio Reyna, who went to Ramos's old high school (St.Benedict's Prep in Newark), has taken over at playmaker and Sampsonisn't sure he can start two men who aren't used to sharing oneball.It's not as if there aren't enough midfield jobs to go around.There are six of them in Sampson's 3-6-1 formation, and if Ramoscan't be the playmaker, he'll find something else to be.
Reynawon't be tripping over Ramos's feet or his ego.Ramos has been wearing a US jersey since he played in the 1988Olympics in Seoul.
He's one of three players left from the 1990 Cupteam and second only to Cobi Jones among capped midfielders.
Heknows how to adjust to whatever circumstance throws at him.The only thing Ramos couldn't adjust to was getting hurt.
He wasat the top of his game two years ago when he shredded his knee thefirst time.
Coincidence or not, the Americans then went 2-2-4 inCup qualifiers without him after being 3-0-0 with him.When Ramos came back, he scored the team's best goal of the yearto beat Costa Rica, 1-0.
Six weeks later, he ruined the knee againand doctors told him he might not make it back for the Cup.Ramos wishes he had a couple more months to get ready.
He wisheshe had the luxury of making a few mistakes in friendly matches.
Hewishes he hadn't been moved back to GO with so little time to provehimself again.Zubov was released from custody Sunday and police issued a briefstatement.
When asked if Zubov had been arraigned, a policedispatcher said the department could not comment further than whatwas contained in the statement.The statement said officers were called to the 1000 block ofGibbs Crossing at 3:05 a.m. Sunday in reference to a 911 hangup.Zubov, 27, completed his second season with the Stars hissixth NHL season Friday when the Stars lost in Detroit,eliminating them from the playoffs in the Western Conferencefinals.A member of the 1994 Stanley Cup champion New York Rangers,Zubov is among the Stars' top performers and was tied for second inthe NHL this season in points by a defenseman with 57.
He was theStars' second-leading scorer behind Mike Modano in the playoffswith nine points in 16 games.A native of Moscow, Zubov came to the Stars in a 1996 trade withPittsburgh.
He is under contract for two more seasons.ELMONT, N.Y.
It was difficult to watch a Triple Crown triumphslip away in the last few yards of a 1 1/2-mile race.
Racing fans,80,162 strong, came out to Belmont Park to see history madeSaturday, and they were denied that experience at the wire.However, it could have been worse.
Instead of losing his TripleCrown bid on the track, Real Quiet could have lost it in thestewards' stand, and that would have been truly ugly.Real Quiet, who had won the Kentucky Derby and Preakness and wasattempting to become the 12th Triple Crown winner in the BelmontStakes, zipped past the eighth pole with a 4-length lead.
But itwas not meant to be as Victory Gallop, second in the Derby andPreakness, closed strongly on him, survived two bumps, the secondof which was more than sufficient to cause a disqualification, andprevailed by a nose.Had the photo gone the other way, the stewards said they wouldhave had to take Real Quiet, the 4-5 favorite, down, depriving himof the sport's greatest honor and depriving his connections of the$5 million Triple Crown bonus.
Had the three stewards acted,politics would have intruded on the scene and conspiracy theoristswould have abounded.
It was unfortunate for those who appreciatethe sweep of history that Real Quiet was defeated, but he is notthe greatest horse ever to stick his head through a bridle, and itwas better that he lost to Victory Gallop's charge than to thestewards' votes.Walden, who is an excellent Kentucky horseman, did anoutstanding job of getting Victory Gallop from the Preakness to theBelmont in top shape.
After the Preakness, Victory Gallop developeda skin rash, caused by ringworm, and lost weight.
But he wasdead-fit for the Belmont.Baffert trains Silver Charm, who lost the Belmont to Touch Goldnearing the wire last year, which also cost Baffert the TripleCrown and his share of the $5 million bonus.Kent Desormeaux, who rode Real Quiet and was outfinished by GaryStevens on Victory Gallop, criticized himself for moving too soonentering the far turn.
Frankly, he also was a little wider than heneeded to be, but Baffert refused to rip Desormeaux's ride.Next for Victory Gallop most likely will be the $1 millionHaskell Invitational, going 1 1/8 miles at Monmouth Aug. 9.
Amonghis opponents there could be Indian Charlie, another top 3-year-oldtrained by Baffert, and Coronado's Quest, the talented colt trainedby Shug McGaughey who won the Riva Ridge Stakes on the Belmontundercard.
Real Quiet might go to the $750,000 Travers Stakes, at amile and one-quarter at Saratoga Aug. 29.Real Quiet became the 14th horse to lose the Triple Crown in theBelmont and the sixth since the last successful bid by Affirmed in1978.
Since Affirmed beat Alydar in a classic stretch battle,Spectacular Bid (1979), Pleasant Colony (1981), Alysheba (1987),Sunday Silence (1989), Silver Charm (1997), and Real Quiet havefailed.FOXBOROUGH, Mass.
Willie Clay is grateful that only one of themajor defections from the Patriots this offseason came on defense,cornerback Jimmy Hitchcock, who was dealt to the Minnesota Vikingsfor a third-round draft pick.For if more had, Clay knows the defense would have felt theimpact, much like the offense knows it will now.Clay, who Sunday took part in the final day of mandatoryminicamp before more than 22,000 season ticket-holders at FoxboroStadium, said he also will miss Hitchcock, a neighbor in the lockerroom and on the field.Because first-round draft pick Tebucky Jones was injured earlyin Friday's session (pulled left hamstring), Clay didn't have achance to form an early opinion as to whether Jones can handle thejob.Canty, who had been buried on the left side behind Ty Law, had achance to play with the first defense at right corner duringminicamp and played well.
He's trying to change the opinions ofthose who believe the Patriots made a mistake by making him theirfirst-round pick last year.The feeling after the camp is that the defense is ahead of theoffense, something that may be heard often during training camp inSmithfield, R.I.The focus of minicamp was mainly on the offense, particularlyrookie running back Robert Edwards.
Eyes also were following DrewBledsoe, as always, wide receiver Terry Glenn, and the offensiveline, which must come to make holes for the new halfback.For the first time in three years, the Patriots are running thesame defense for the second straight year.
The constant changing ofschemes had taken its toll on some players.
Now, rather than havingto learn a new style, they can just concentrate on improving.
Billerica, Mass., now may be in Tom Glavine's rear-viewmirror, but it's never out of sight.
And certainly not out of histhoughts.Any link to home makes Glavine a little sentimental, which iswhy pitching Monday night's opener of the Red Sox-Braves series atTurner Field still is special for the former National League CyYoung winner and Most Valuable Player of the 1995 World Series.Glavine could have traded in his Braves jersey a couple of yearsago when he became a free agent, but he decided not to leave a goodsituation.
He was there for the bad years in the late 1980s, so whynot stick around for the good times?Since 1991, the Braves have been perennial contenders, andGlavine has been one constant.
He, along with manager Bobby Cox,pitching coach Leo Mazzone, and to a degree John Smoltz, are thelast links to the bad Braves.The high point of Glavine's career came in '95 when the Braveswon it all and Glavine won Game 6 of the World Series with asterling 1-0 masterpiece over the Cleveland Indians.Since then the Braves have been good in the playoffs, but notgood enough, beaten in the NLCS by the expansion and wild-cardFlorida Marlins last season.The Braves are dominating the regular season again.
Even with an8-2 rec-ord and a 2.10 ERA, Glavine can't boast that he's theteam's best pitcher.
There's Greg Maddux, 9-2, with a 1.69 ERA;lefthander Denny Neagle, 7-3 with a 3.04 ERA; young Kevin Millwood,8-2 with a 4.07 ERA; and, waiting in the wings, the injured Smoltz.Filling in for Smoltz has been veteran Dennis Martinez, who has a2-2 record and a 3.86 ERA.Glavine says his own pitching hasn't changed a bit.
He says inany given year one pitch is working better than another.
This yearhe's rediscovered his breaking pitch to go with one of the bestchangeups in the game and a fastball that seems a yard quicker whenhe's getting his offspeed stuff over.Glavine, like many in baseball, is baffled by the struggles ofAvery.
At one time Avery and Glavine were inseperable, part ofbaseball's most incredible staff.
Glavine's great stuff and Avery'sdominating heat complemented each other well.Glavine is thrilled that Williams has become a successfulmanager.
Williams was the third base coach and infield instructorunder Cox, and he also was the coach who worked with the pitcherson their hitting.
It was one of the longest, most exhausting three-game tripsthe Giants had ever taken.
It also turned out to be one of thesweetest.The Giants the first-place San Francisco Giants had everyreason to fold it up Sunday afternoon.
The flight out on Thursdaywas bogged down with bad weather and airport delays.
On Saturday,they played a bullpen-draining 14-inning affair that ended aftermidnight.
And Sunday, they were down three runs to the Cardinals inthe seventh inning.
It would have been perfectly acceptable to givein and go home.But that's not Dusty Baker's Giants.
Sparked by a double bypitcher Mark Gardner and a tie-breaking home run Jeff Kent, theGiants turned this one around with a four-run seventh inning andheld on with some great pitching by closer Robb Nen for a 6-5 winat Busch Stadium.With the victory, the Giants completed their first three-gamesweep here in 14 years and extended their winning streak to aseason-best nine games.It was the 20th comeback victory of the season for the Giants,who were down 4-0 after the first inning when the Cardinals knockedaround starter Gardner.
It's getting to be a trend for Gardner toget whacked early he's given up two five-run first innings thisyear to go along with Sunday's four-run start.Gardner also knew he wouldn't be pulled anytime soon either.
TheGiants' bullpen turned in 91/3 innings the night before and most ofthe 'pen was unavailable.Gardner did his job from there on, allowing just a run-scoringdouble in the fifth inning by McGwire.Given therapy between innings to get loose, Gardner's kinksdidn't seem to bother him at the plate.
He lined a single in thethird inning, and in the sixth he had the key hit: When showingbunt with a runner on first, he pulled the bat back and drilled adouble into the left-field corner off starter Kent Mercker.With runners on second and third, Hamilton followed with atwo-run double to right that cut the Cardinals' lead to 5-4.
It wasthe second game in a row Hamilton has come up big.
Saturday night,Hamilton's two-run triple in the ninth inning sent the game intoextra innings.Mercker, whose only blemishes before the sixth were a solo homerun by Brian Johnson and an RBI double by Kent, was losing it inthe seventh, but because the Cardinals' bullpen was in the sameterrible shape as the Giants', St. Louis manager Tony La Russastayed with his starter.Mercker's inning only got worse when his wild pitch movedHamilton to third and Barry Bonds drove home the game-tying runwith deep sacrifice fly to center.
Kent followed with thetie-breaking home run into the right-center field stands.
It washis seventh homer of the season.Everyone knew this would be a one-run game, or if not, anextra-inning game all six games here between the Giants and Cardshave been exactly that.
After the Cardinals put runners on secondand third and no outs against Nen, it looked like the Cardinals,losers of eight out of nine, would steal a win.But Nen struck out Ray Lankford and intentionally walked McGwireto load the bases.
After a force out by Brian Jordan, Nen ended itby getting John Mabry to bounce into a force play.The site, at www.schwab.com/chinese, is Schwab's latest effortin a longtime strategy to build its Asian American clientele byproviding bilingual brokers, materials and telephone services.Schwab also has opened five branches nationwide, including twoin the Bay Area, to cater to Asian Americans by providing bilingualbrokers and materials.Schwab's Asian-language branches are located in San Francisco'sChinatown, Milpitas, the Los Angeles suburbs of Rowland Heights andSan Gabriel, and Flushing, N.Y.
There are plans to open newbranches in Daly City and Seattle later this year.Other financial companies are trying to catch up with Schwab.Merrill Lynch has Asian-language offices in New York and the LosAngeles area.
PaineWebber Inc. also has an office in Flushing thatfocuses on Asian Americans.Fidelity Investments has launched a pilot program to try andtarget Asian American investors by providing bilingual brokers overthe telephone and at some investor centers across the westernUnited States, including San Francisco.Chinese-speaking customers can get quotes, check their accountbalances and make trades on Schwab's new Web site, which also hasseveral links to the company's English-language site.The site is being promoted by Schwab's Asian investment centers,and by ads in Chinese media.
But the most effective marketing toolwill be satisfied customers, Louie said.Many Asian American investors already do business in English,but Schwab wanted to provide as many options possible to makeinvesting less stressful, Louie said.The Florida-based firm will introduce a Spanish-language versionof its Web site, which provides news and free rate informationabout mortgages, home equity loans, auto loans, credit cards andsavings and checking accounts.As the only Web site that will provide extensive personalfinance information in Spanish, Bank Rate Monitor in Espanol hopesto tap into the growing market of Spanish-speakers in the UnitedStates as well as consumers in Latin America.
Bank Rate Monitor in Espanol will be accessible only throughthe company's main Web site at www.bankrate.com, probably by thisweek.
It will eventually have its own Internet address atwww.bankrate.com/esp.Plasencia said the odds for success are good.
The U.S. Hispanicmarket is the fifth-largest Spanish-speaking market in the world,with $273 billion in annual purchasing power, according to StrategyResearch Corp. in Coral Gables, Fla.A recent study by Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., alsoshows that middle- and lower-income Latinos are more likely thanwhites to buy PCs.For example, almost 32 percent of Hispanics with annualhousehold income under $35,000, 58 percent of Hispanics with annualhousehold income between $35,000 and $49,000, and 77 percent ofHispanics with annual household income of $50,000 or more ownedcomputers, the study found.By comparison, the study noted that 25.5 percent of whites withannual household income under $35,000, 47.5 percent of whites withannual household income between $35,000 and $49,000, and 74.6percent of whites with annual household income of $50,000 or moreowned computers.In addition, computers and the Internet have opened the door toLatin American consumers, many of whom own homes or businesses inthe United States, or want to keep some of their money in U.S.banks for security reasons, said Plasencia.
The Spanish-language site will provide a direct translation ofabout two-thirds of the 1,600 pages of information on Bank RateMonitor's main site, said Plasencia.Bank Rate Monitor intends to launch a broader Web site inNovember that Plasencia hopes will become the America Online forthe Spanish-language market.Although the as-yet-unnamed site will be built around financialinformation, it will expand to include online brokerage, travel andbanking services as well as chat rooms and message boards, he said.Whether it's credit cards, insurance products or mutual funds,financial companies like Banco Popular are starting to take aim atthe nation's growing ethnic markets.On one hand, ethnic consumers are getting more opportunitiesthan ever to join the financial mainstream.
On the other hand,objective noncommercial information about products and services isstill hard to find in many of these communities.The preapproved offer from Banco Popular, for example, includeda $750 credit line, a $30 annual fee, and a 21.9 percent interestrate.Informed consumers would know that if they had shopped around,they could have qualified for a no-fee credit card with a lowerinterest rate.There's a big untapped market for financial goods and servicesin ethnic markets, according to Claritas Inc., an Arlington,Va.-based market research firm.Of the almost 267 million people in the United States, 12.7percent are African American, 10.7 percent are Hispanic and 5.6percent are Asian American (Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese,and Asian and Pacific Islander), Claritas said.Just 5.41 percent of Hispanics, 5.01 percent of AfricanAmericans and 14.38 percent of Asian Americans owned mutual fundsin 1997, Claritas said.And 47.22 percent of Hispanics, 61.42 percent of AfricanAmericans and 52.70 percent of Asian Americans had life insurancein 1996, the most recent figures available, Claritas said.Banco Popular certainly isn't alone in targeting ethnicconsumers.
Freedom Card Inc., based in Marina Del Rey (Los AngelesCounty), plans a statewide rollout next month of the Freedom Card,a credit card targeting African Americans who haven't establishedcredit histories.
A few weeks ago, Charles Schwab Co. in San Francisco becamethe first U.S. brokerage to create an Internet trading site in aforeign language Chinese at www.schwab.com/chinese.In the past, ethnic groups often were ignored by financial goodsand services companies because marketers focused on the generalmarket, said Kris Reed, vice president of Claritas' financialservices group.Little information also was available about the purchasingbehavior of immigrants or low-income consumers, which often comesfrom credit reports, she said.A few companies, like Banco Popular and Freedom Inc., aretargeting immigrant and low-income consumers at the other end ofthe spectrum who haven't yet established credit histories.There can be a downside to these efforts, however.
Banco Popularmay be trying to help Latinos establish credit, but it's alsooffering discounts on money transfers from Western Union andprescriptions from Kmart.By offering such discounts, Banco Popular is tacitly sending amessage to Latino consumers that it's OK to pay for prescriptionsout-of-pocket instead of getting health insurance.It's also encouraging the continued use of agencies like WesternUnion, which provide expensive check cashing services and moneytransfers.The secured Freedom Card carries an interest rate of 12.5percent to 18.5 percent.
The unsecured Freedom Card has a 90-dayintroductory interest rate of zero, which rises to between 15.5percent and 18.5 percent.
Both charge a $35 annual fee.Cecilia Liu, director of Asian markets for John Hancock, saidit's important for companies to speak directly to ethnic markets byproviding materials in their native language and being culturallysensitive to their needs.The only way consumers can protect themselves is to becomeeducated about financial goods and services and make the effort toshop around for products before they make a purchase, said Li ofConsumer Action.Mainstream publications such as Consumer Reports or Moneymagazine may not be popular in ethnic communities, but there aresome places where consumers can get objective noncommercialinformation in their native languages.Consumer Action offers a variety of free brochures about credit,insurance, investing and other consumer issues in English, Spanish,Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese.Bank Rate Monitor later this week will introduce aSpanish-language version of its Web site at www.bankrate.com, whichwill provide news and free rate information about mortgages, homeequity loans, auto loans, credit cards, and savings and checkingaccounts.
Whether shopping for a new credit card or an auto loan,consumers should do their homework before spending their money.
Andif English is their second language, they should demand disclosuresin their native language or ask someone they trust to translate thematerials.BOSTON John Wasdin said he had been looking forward to makingthe trip to Atlanta for quite some time.
After all, his family hadplanned a reunion around the Red Sox' three-game set vs. the Bravesbeginning Monday night.
From Tallahassee to Jacksonville, Wasdinsall over Florida were ready to make the trek north to converge uponTed Turner Field to watch their favorite Boston pitcher.Plane reservations had been confirmed.
Hotel rooms booked.
And,yes, there were even plans for a family trip to Six Flags.
But thensomething came up last Wednesday night that caused a major glitchin Wasdin's plans for a happy family reunion.Wasdin smiled and laughed.
He could afford to do so, especiallysince he got his ticket to ride to Atlanta when the Red Soxrecalled him some 24 hours after sending him down to the minors.The roster spot became available when Dennis Eckersley was placedon the 15-day disabled list.Wasdin said he was scheduled to start for Pawtucket Sunday.
Uponhis arrival in Pawtucket, he telephoned pitching coach Joe Kerriganto get his throwing assignment, but was told to hold off and reportback to Fenway Park Thursday, because something might be up withEck's arm.While it also helped lower Wasdin's ERA to 5.35, it did littleto improve his hits-to-innings-pitched ratio, which is 39 to 332/3.CHICAGO The highlights of Sunday night's game will becondensed into a few choice plays, like Michael Jordan's one-armedmagic against Greg Ostertag or the full-court pass by DennisRodman, and rightly so.
NBA greatness is always defined by scoring.With a few choice words Magic's hook, West's bomb, or merelyGarfield Heard you're right back in the moment.But there's a cult level to NBA lore, stories barely rememberedand seldom told.
They are the unopened volumes, telling the realstory, and they center entirely around defense.In that ridiculous 42-point rout of Utah, the Chicago Bulls seta team-wide offensive standard they won't be able to match.
Not inthis series, maybe not ever if Jordan sails into the sunset.
Nobodycould miss, not even Jud Buechler.
Bill Wennington was a heck of anoption.
Even Dickey Simpkins put one down.
It was bawdy, comicaland completely unrealistic.But what's happening inside the Jazz players' heads?
How does itfeel knowing that they can't execute their offense, that they can'tset the tough screens, that a 6-for-6 start by Karl Malone meansabsolutely nothing?Sloan glanced at a copy of the final boxscore, a surrealisticset of numbers showing seven turnovers by Malone, 30 percentshooting by the Jazz, a combined two points by John Stockton andHoward Eisley, and the 96-54 final.No team in the history of the 24-second shot clock had scoredfewer points.
Not just in the Finals or the playoffs, but in any game.
The plodding beasts of the mid-50s did better than this.
Itwas also the most one-sided game ever witnessed in the Finals.Center Greg Foster was seething.
Where he comes from, the hardstreets of Oakland high school ball, you don't lose a game this waywithout losing some pride, as well.Stockton looked positively helpless, shooting 1-for-4 and nevergetting to the free-throw line.
Malone broke from the gate like acooped-up thoroughbred, but he was a different man after Rodmanentered the game.
At the time, he was on a 5-for-5 roll.
For therest of the first half nearly 15 minutes' worth Malone tookonly two shots.And that's the hidden legacy of the Bulls.
Occasionally throughtime, a defensive play will stand out, like the great Boston Gardensteals by John Havlicek and Larry Bird.
More often, those momentsdisappear.
People remember Magic and Doctor J, and they forgetabout Michael Cooper, K.C.
Jones, Walt Frazier, Satch Sanders.
Theyforget how the Warriors shut down Elvin Hayes in '75 or why BillRussell kept beating Chamberlain and West.
A: It's always been daunting trying to find work in one placewhen you're living in another place.
But today cross-country oreven international job hunters have a lot more options because ofthe Internet.There are Web sites geared to professionals in almost everyindustry, often with job listings and discussion groups.
Thediscussion groups are a great way to network with colleagues andnose around for job openings in other cities.In your case, your first stop on the Web should be the site runby the Bay Area Video Coalition.
BAVC's Web site at www.bavc.orglists scores of jobs in the video and new media fields.
BAVC alsooffers more than 400 classes in video and new media, along withscreenings and other useful networking events.
For membershipinformation, call (415) 861-3282.Another site you should check out is www.listfoundation.org,which has a number of new-media job listings.
Other local groupswith job listings for the video and film industry are the Film ArtsFoundation at (415) 552-8760 and Media Alliance at (415) 546-6334.To land an offer, you'll probably have to follow up with someold-fashioned in-person networking.Schedule a vacation trip out here to coincide with some industryevent like a video festival.
Then use your Internet contacts orother personal connections like your college alumni network toline up informational interviews.New media and video really are booming in the Bay Area, withmore independent film and video producers per capita than New Yorkor Los Angeles, according to BAVC.So do your homework.
You're likely to end up with a great SanFrancisco job ... and a whole new set of problems.
Q: My wife's company was recently acquired by another firm.The new owners have withheld one week's salary from each employee,and say they intend to hold it until the employee someday leavesthe firm.
Is this legal?
A: It's completely normal for a landlord to demand an extramonth's rent from tenants as a security deposit.
But for a companyto withhold a week of employees' pay as some kind of securitydeposit?
That's extremely unusual, and probably illegal.State and federal labor codes require firms to pay their workersin a regular and timely fashion at least twice a month for mostworkers, or once a month for salaried or professional workers.If your firm is socking away your week's pay in some kind ofescrow account, Ross said, it's violating the law.
The companycould face misdemeanor charges, or penalties of up to $100 peremployee plus 25 percent of the amount that is being unlawfullywithheld.
The place to file a complaint is the office of theCalifornia Labor Commissioner, at (415) 557-7878.Of course, it's possible that you misunderstood the policy.
Isthe company really withholding your pay?
Or did it just change theschedule for issuing paychecks?
Q: I am a self-employed editor.
One of my clients is apublisher back east who considers me an employee and withholdstaxes from my paychecks.
Because this client considers me anemployee, my tax accountant says I cannot deduct my expenses forjobs done for this client.
But the client doesn't provide me withme any supplies or materials.
Do I have any choice about theirtreating me as an employee?
A: There are a growing number of cases these days wherecompanies misclassify employees as independent contractors, in aneffort to avoid paying benefits or to pare down their full-timeworkforce.You've got the opposite situation you're an independentcontractor who is being misclassified as an employee.Before asking to be reclassified, do some math and make sure itwould pay off to be reclassified.
As an employee, you and youremployer each pay 7.65 percent of your wages into Social Securityand Medicare; as a contractor, you'd have to pay the full 15.3percent yourself.Also, there may be a way for you to deduct your expenses evenas an employee.
Oakland accountant David Roberts suggests you takea look at IRS Form 2106.
That would allow you to tally up anddeduct unreimbursed business expenses but only if you file a taxreturn with itemized deductions, and only if your unreimbursedexpenses total more than 2 percent of your income.Send your work and career questions to Ilana DeBare, Workways,San Francisco Chronicle, 901 Mission St., San Francisco 94103.
Orsend e-mail to workways sfgate.com.
Or call (415) 764-2815.
Wecan't respond to each query in person, but we will answer as manyin print as we can.BOSTON All he's ever wanted to do in Boston, really, iscontribute in any way possible.
As a starter.
A reliever out ofthe bullpen.
And, on those rare occasions, even as a pinch runner.But Sunday night before 30,630 at Fenway Park, Avery tookanother step in cementing his spot in Boston's starting rotation which always had been his intended role by throwing seven inningsof shutout ball, allowing just three hits and one walk whileringing up four strikeouts, to lead the Red Sox to a 5-0 victoryover the New York Mets.Avery's last start was last Tuesday in Toronto.
He went fiveinnings and allowed three runs and three hits in a 5-3 victory,only his second of the season and first since a 5-0 shutout overKansas City May 16.
The reason he was nervous was that he wasexperimenting with some new mechanics on the mound, a new releasepoint suggested by pitching coach Joe Kerrigan.That is, with the exception of a lapse in the fourth, whichprompted a visit from Kerrigan.
So why did it take so long todetect Avery's delivery problem, and to correct it?CHICAGO With 3:32 left in the first quarter of Game 3 of theNBA Finals Sunday night, Karl Malone tossed in a pretty turnaroundfall-away jumper over Dennis Rodman to give the Jazz a 14-9 leadover the Bulls, and himself a 6-for-6 start from the field.At that point, the Jazz should have walked off the United Centerfloor and caught a flight home.
It would have saved them the abjecthumiliation that was to follow over the next 44-plus minutes.Considering what did transpire, the state of Utah would be wellwithin its rights to deny the Jazz re-entry and send them back totheir original home of New Orleans.The Bulls took the Jazz apart at the seams, starting with a runof 12 straight points after Malone's jumper and ending only withthe merciful final buzzer completing a 96-54 massacre.
In theprocess, the five-time champs slammed the Jazz into severalundesirable areas of the record book.Not only did the Jazz lose by the largest margin ever in aFinals game, and not only did they set single-game scoring lows inthe Finals and the playoffs overall they scored fewer points thanany team in any game since the shot clock was adopted in 1954-55.The Indiana Pacers, who played without leading scorers ReggieMiller and Rik Smits that day, managed just 55 against the Spurs ina regular-season game back on March 29.
This Jazz team had its fullcomplement of players, the same ones that had the league's bestregular-season record.It was such a thorough dismantling, Michael Jordan was almost anafterthought.
His role in the defensive lockdown was crucial, withhis smothering of Jeff Hornacek and his trapping pressure; at theother end he scored 24 points, including another entry into thepermanent highlight reel, a second-quarter layup in which heswitched the ball from right hand to left in midair.Malone hardly did: after briefly redeeming himself from his14-of-41 performance in the first two games, he managed to takeonly five shots and hit two after his 6-for-6 start.
He finishedwith a meek 22 points, three rebounds and seven turnovers, three ofwhich were offensive fouls.Even during Malone's big start, the Bulls were putting down thefoundation for arguably the greatest defensive game ever.
Theirtraps from all over the court prevented John Stockton from evengetting the ball upcourt efficiently, as well as keeping the Jazzfrom either picking or rolling.
Ron Harper made a complete nuisanceof himself to Stockton and added eight points, 10 rebounds andseven assists in his best overall showing of the series.
The Jazzcommitted 26 turnovers, tying a franchise playoff record; Stocktonhad five by himself.The upshot of all this was a series of Jazz droughts that beganafter Malone's late first-quarter jumper.
Nearly six minutes wentby before they scored again.
Starters Hornacek and Bryon Russellwent scoreless until the final five minutes of the half.
The Bullsfinished the half with a 12-2 run in just 2:27.
The Jazz trailed49-31 at halftime, with their total tying for the second fewestpoints in a half.And that was their (begin ital) good (end ital) half: in thesecond half they set a new mark with just 23 points.
Theirfourth-quarter total of nine was also a record, as was their 21total field goals and the Bulls' 42-point margin of victory.All this as Hincapie a winner turned loser in this race a yearago was shooting over the finish line first in Sunday's FirstUnion US Professional Racing Organization Championship, winning in6 hours 6 minutes 35 seconds.Last year Hincapie hopped on the podium when he thought he wasthe first American finisher, thus gaining the title of USprofessional national champion.
But he had it taken away minuteslater when judges disqualified him for illegally using a team carto draft with in the race.First, it was $30,000 for winning the race, which was 156 mileslong.
Then it was a starred-and-striped jersey for being the firstAmerican to win, and becoming the year's US pro national champion.Finally, there was a silver cup and a check for $10,000 for winningthe Solidarity Cup, a series of races completed Sunday that tookplace over the past two months in Poland and America.The race that covered 10 circuits around downtown Philadelphiatraveled along the Schuylkill River, up the steep road called theManayunk Wall, and back down to make a loop in front of the fans atthe start-finish line.
And the fast, crescendoing synthesizer musicand the announcer's frantic voice were not in the least too intensefor the drama that unfolded during the last half-hour.As the riders made their way on the last three 3-mile circuitsof the race, the red, white, and blue Postal Service jerseysdominated the lead pack of 30.
The Polish, Spanish, and Italianriders were trying to pedal up to the front and dominate, butHincapie said it was two Americans Frank McCormack, of Leicester,Mass., and McCormack's brother Mark, of North Easton, Mass.
whowere really causing him trouble.So with just 200 meters to go, as riders jostled for positionand rode far faster than the 25.43 m.p.h.
they had been averaging,Hincapie made for the line.
That, he said, is when his mind zonedout.ALAMEDA, Calif.
The Raiders completed their final minicampSunday, Mo Collins manned the left-tackle position.
It isn't astretch to suggest Collins even as a rookie could become thecaretaker of quarterback Jeff George's blind side.Pat Harlow, the returning starter at left tackle, missed allthree of the team's offseason minicamps.
The Raiders are treatingHarlow carefully as he recovers from back surgery.Coach Jon Gruden is optimistic that Harlow will be fine.
If not and back pain can linger, as Harlow knows the all-important jobfalls to Collins, the 23rd overall choice in the draft.Collins played at Florida, so he knows something aboutprotecting the passer.
He spent most of his college days at righttackle; changing sides requires some adjustments in technique.SEARCH: The Raiders are still in the market for a backupquarterback.
They were outbid for Dave Brown (who signed withArizona), passed on Jim Everett (health concerns) and are notespecially interested in re-signing David Klingler.Gruden said the team will continue its search for the next fewweeks.
Former Baltimore starter Vinny Testaverde is a free agent,but he probably wants a chance to start and more money than theRaiders are willing to pay.They could head to training camp with Donald Hollas as the No.
2quarterback.
Hollas, who was No.
3 on the depth chart last season,has collected plenty of snaps during offseason workouts.Defensive coordinator Willie Shaw is installing a new scheme,predicated on putting pressure on the quarterback.
Something needsto change, because the Raiders ranked 30th (last) in the league intotal defense last season.
el,3 f,25,10 MISCELLANY: fn,cor,9,10,8.5 Defensive backJames Trapp left Sunday's practice with a biceps injury of unknownseverity.
... Safety Patrick Bates missed the practice because of asore wrist, suffered Friday.
X-rays were negative.
...
The Raidersare scheduled to begin training camp July 21 in Napa.
Their firstexhibition game is August 8 at Dallas.PARIS It was a good day for a pesadilla a nightmare where hecomes from and that's exactly what Alex Corretja endured for 2hours and 18 minutes Sunday in full view of 16,000 tennis patronsat Stade Roland Garros, plus millions of freeloaders at telesideacross the globe.Worse, Corretja sees across the net a huge long-haired guy inbaggy clothes, resembling an old-time burlesque comedian, butthere's nothing funny about the way he smacks balls too hard andfast to handle.
He looks like Corretja's long-time amigo, Charlie Carlos Moya but would Charlie treat him this way?It's bad, but not a dream after all.
Unless you consider it fromCharlie Moya's standpoint a dream come true, winning the FrenchOpen, 6-3, 7-5, 6-3, and rising to No.
5 in the world from No.
12.Better still, retaining No.
1 in Barcelona, the capital of thegame, still ahead of Corretja, who ascended to world No.
9 from No.14.The reign of Spain (a.k.a.
Barcelona) stayed mainly on this dirtplain in the Bois de Boulogne as 21-year-old Moya, a monster out ofa nightmare if there ever was one here, followed up on ArantxaSanchez Vicario's 7-6 (7-5), 0-6, 6-2 title victory over MonicaSeles Saturday.Same scenario four years ago to the accompaniment of scarlet andgold Spanish and Catalan flags ruffling and snapping happily.
Onlythen Sergi Bruguera was Arantxa's dirt-dancing partner.
But Moya,with his bludgeoning forehand and serve, startling speed, andsurprising volleying touch has more possibilities than Bruguera.The Boys from Barcelona arrived in Paris a dozen strong of 19Spaniards entered in the 128-man chase, and it came down to the6-foot-3-inch kid from Avenida Foix to follow in the sneaker stepsof his Davis Cup captain, Manolo Santana, the champ of 1961 and1964, Andres Gimeno, 1972, and Bruguera.Corretja, losing six of his 15 service games, including theopener, was in trouble from the moment Moya whacked a forehand towin the first point of the day.
He couldn't penetrate, and hisrolling topspin was no problem for the tall Moya.Moya shuffled around his backhand quickly to brutalize secondserves with forehands, whammed a service winner to duck an earlybreak point and reach 4-2, and patiently waited for openings asCorretja struggled fiercely to escape break points and set pointsdeep in the second set.
But there was no way for him to hold offMoya for long.Corretja, 24, the guy who turned Sampras's stomach inside outand held a match point in that dramatic US Open quarterfinal of1996, couldn't produce similar form Sunday.
He had made his mark onthe French a week before by outlasting Gumy in 5 hours 31 minutes,the longest major tournament match, and his ordeal at Moya's handsmay have seemed as long though not as draining.During an afternoon of rare good sporting feeling each mancontradicted judgments of line officials and awarded points to hisfriend.Then the audience won as the great soccer player, Pele, who ledBrazil to World Cups in 1958-62-70, appeared on the podium to helppresent the prize, the sterling Coupe de Mousquetaires.
Pele huggedMoya and Corretja and, as soccer balls materialized, ping-pongedheaders with both men before the Spaniards booted the balls intothe crowd.
Along with Pele was 82-year-old Don Budge, who won thetitle 60 years ago, the second leg of the original Grand Slam.Sampras, Andre Agassi, and Michael Chang may have evaporated fast,but Budge gave the final an American presence.OAKLAND, Calif. Add the A's to the long list of people inbaseball who just don't like the Arizona Diamondbacks.Deep into a 12-4 Diamondbacks rout Sunday that lost its suspenseearly, Arizona manager Buck Showalter instructed reliever RussSpringer to hit an A's hitter in retaliation for the A's hittingYamil Benitez.That might not have incensed the A's on its own.
No, what hadthem so irate was A) the choice of rookie Ben Grieve (a.k.a.
TheFranchise) as the target for the message pitch; and B) plunking himin the ninth inning.Showalter did not actually confirm that he ordered Springer tothrow at Grieve, grazing him on his side.
But he left no room fordoubt.Mike Fetters, the A's fourth reliever of the day, might indeedhave been throwing at Benitez.
He might even have been mad thatDavid Dellucci had legged out a double earlier in the eighth afterthe score was already 12-4.
But Fetters made a strong argument thathe did not plunk Benitez.The way the A's saw it, that high-and-tight pitch to KevinMitchell in the bottom of the eighth should have been enough of ananswer to any perceived offense Fetters committed.
Mitchell got outof the way but dropped his bat and sprawled to the ground.
Mitchelldidn't think Amaury Telemaco's inside offering was aimed at him,but he also didn't think much of the Diamondbacks going afterGrieve.The chest-thumping and war of words might serve to fire up anA's team that looked in danger of going flat.
The loss broughttheir only three-game home winning streak of the season to ascreeching halt.
They headed to Los Angeles for a three-game serieswith the Dodgers that threatens to be punishment enough to kill anyoptimism generated by the team's 3-2 homestand, just the secondwinning homestand of the year.The Diamondbacks (20-43) reached double digits in scoring foronly the second time this season, the other time coming April 20against the Florida Marlins (17-44).
That was mostly becauseknuckleballer Tom Candiotti had to leave the game in the secondwith back spasms, handing the ball over to the A's bullpen.Jay Witasick, called up from Triple-A Edmonton on Thursday, gaveup a homer to the first batter he faced, Dellucci, and that prettymuch set the tone.
He gave up three homers and six runs in his 31/3innings.
At least Witasick has some promise.
It's hard to say thesame about Aaron Small or T.J. Mathews, the next two A's relieversto squirt a little kerosene on the fire.ELMONT, N.Y. Darkness was falling upon Barn 9.
It was nearlythree hours after one of the greatest Belmont Stakes in memory, oneof the most exciting finishes that ever could be scripted, and MikePegram was leaning against a fence post by the barn.All the outward glitz of a party-to-be were there.
More than 100people were clumped here and there around Real Quiet's barn, awhole caravan of white and black stretch limousines all with RealQuiet placards on their sides were parked beyond the barn, andeven more were lined up near the Belmont training track a half-mileaway.
But the party chatter was low, there had been tears and therecould be little joy.Pegram's horse had run 1 1/2 miles and had finished an inchshort, a nose shy in the jargon of horse racing.
Pegram, theever-present can of Bud Light in hand, still seemed in shock.
Heand his horse had come within an inch of a Triple Crown.Pegram seemed almost believable.
But still he seemed in shock ashe went through the motions of posing with a fan with a camera hereor giving an autograph to another fan with a Belmont Stakes programthere.
The flash would not go off for the fan with the camera;Pegram gamely posed a second time.But to lose the Belmont that way, to lose the Triple Crown inthat fashion, to see $5 million slip away when your horse hasopened 4, 5, and 6 lengths in the stretch only to lose it all by anose was the cruelest way to lose.
Pegram's face showed it; hiswords wouldn't.There had been many sights a few hours earlier.
There had beenthe haunting sight of D. Wayne Lukas, once the best of the NewGuard, striding into the jammed Belmont paddock to saddle not one,but two horses ... and Lukas was all alone.
Then, when his saddlingchores were done, Lukas walked through the tunnel that connects thepaddock to the track itself, turned left, and headed to the owner'sbox ... again all alone.Then, of course, there had been the stirring sight of Real Quiethaving the Belmont won, only to see Victory Gallop bearing down onhim in the final 16th of a mile, and finally catching Real Quiet inthe stirring, final jump.There even was a ludicrous sight of the press release from thestewards' box and the stewards saying they would have disqualifiedReal Quiet if he had finished a nose ahead of Victory Gallop, andnot a nose behind ... and virtually no one in racing believed aTriple Crown winner would have been disqualified on what was, atbest, a 50-50 call.But, most of all, there was the sight of long-comatose BelmontPark teeming and throbbing and bursting with fans and excitement.Most, of course, were there to see a Triple Crown that was not tobe, but many were there also because they were drawn to the trackby the fun-loving crew that surrounded Pegram and trainer BobBaffert, who were on more New York City newscasts than RudyGiuliani or George Pataki.WASHINGTON From entrepreneurial darlings to evil monopolists,from nerds in a garage to corporate titans, Intel and Microsoftsymbolize the technology industry, the fastest-growing segment ofthe U.S. economy.The Federal Trade Commission will meet today on whether to filean antitrust suit against Intel, following on the heels of asimilar Justice Department action against Microsoft.
Sources expectthe FTC to approve an action against the Santa Clara chip giant.With these two historic antitrust cases, the federal governmentis targeting the two companies that more than any other symbolizethe phenomenal growth and success of the high-tech industry.The lawsuits mark a sea change in antitrust enforcement.
Afternearly 16 years of relative quiet on the issue of big-firmdomination, the federal government has opened an aggressive attackon the twin behemoths of America's most prominent industry.The stakes are high.
Should the lawsuits succeed, they willimpose rules and limits on an industry that has prided itself onits freewheeling independence.Reminiscent of decades-old antitrust cases against big oil andbig steel, these suits seek to rearrange the driveshaft of the U.S.economy.However, neither case turns on classic antitrust issues, such aspredatory pricing.
Instead, Intel and Microsoft appear to havedrawn the government's attention because smaller players hadcomplained about the two giants' dominance in their markets.Since the mid-1970s, antitrust action against dominant firms hadbeen in full retreat, led by University of Chicago economists whoargued that the goal of antitrust should be to protect consumers,not competitors.By 1982, the Reagan administration virtually eliminateddominant-firm cases; antitrust efforts were refocused onanti-competitive mergers, collusion and criminal activity such asbid-rigging and price-fixing.A major exception was the 1984 breakup of ATT; theadministration argued, however, that ATT was more like a monopolycreated by government regulation than one derived by efficiency;even as ATT's divestiture was announced, the Justice Departmentdropped its 13-year antitrust case against IBM.Although the Bush administration actually initiated theinvestigation against Microsoft, dominant-firm antitrust actionbegan its real resurgence under President Clinton, with casesagainst the mergers of Office Depot and Staples, and Lockheed andNorthrop, for example.But politics are hardly all-explaining.
Microsoft's critics anddefenders straddle the ideological map.
Former judge Robert Bork,whose 1978 book The Antitrust Paradox did much to lead theantitrust retreat, is now heading the intellectual attack onMicrosoft.
And Sen. Patty Murray, a liberal Democrat fromMicrosoft's home state of Washington, is among the company'sstaunchest defenders.One reason for the revival of antitrust zeal, some say, is thatthe cute little baby high tech firms of 1980s have grown into bigugly giants.
They and their founders dominate the Information Agelike the robber barons did the Industrial Revolution: Bill Gatesand Microsoft are today's version of John D. Rockefeller andStandard Oil.Some say it is high tech's greatest asset innovation thatmakes it an antitrust target.
Fierce global competition in matureindustries offers no room for monopolies in things like chemicals,steel, automobiles and machinery.A taste of this came with a recent appellate court decisionfavoring Microsoft in which the government alleged that the companyviolated the 1994 consent decree by bundling its Internet browserwith Windows 95.Similarly, the FTC's anticipated case against Intel appears tobe quite narrow.
It is expected to focus on whether themarket-leading chip firm had a right to withhold design informationon upcoming chips from companies that sued it for patentinfringement.But even these narrowly drawn cases could enmesh the courts indisputes over basic business strategies: how to market products,how to write customer contracts, how to price products and how todesign them, and what obligations dominant companies have towardtheir customers.Others say Microsoft's tactics are a simple case of a monopolistforcing consumers to buy its other products.
Xerox tried it withcopier paper; IBM tried it with punch cards; even a manufacturer ofa salt dispenser to make snow melt tried to get everyone to buy itssalt too.The resounding defeat of Al Checchi, a half-billionairebusinessman who spent $40 million of his own money in the race forthe Democratic gubernatorial nomination, brought forth a certainpopulist euphoria a new conventional wisdom across the land thateven in flashy California, money can't buy you voters' love.But tempting as it might be in light of current campaign-financescandals to conclude that voters rejected the corrosive power ofmoney in politics, the reality is considerably more complex, andless uplifting.For one thing, the winning candidate, Lt. Gov.
Gray Davis, a23-year veteran of state politics, is himself a relentlessfund-raiser, one often accused of blending his campaign-financeoutings with his official duties.
And even if he seemed a paupercompared to Checchi, his campaign spending still broke the old $9million record for a gubernatorial primary campaign here, set in1994.Furthermore, a contrary example of the power of money loomedjust as large here last week: A $20-million campaign by organizedlabor managed to defeat a ballot measure that would have requiredunions to obtain annual written consent of their members beforeusing dues for political purposes.
The measure was favored in earlypublic opinion polls, but its opponents outspent supporters 3 to 1,and union members went to the polls in unusually large numbers,helping Davis in the process.There isn't much evidence that the rules of wealth and politicshave dramatically changed.
Since at least the days of AndrewJackson, Americans have been ambivalent toward the wealthy inpolitics, celebrating the triumph of log cabin little guys andviewing elites with suspicion.Some of those candidates spent money in ways that would almostcertainly be subject to intense media scrutiny now; for example, bytrading favors or greasing the palms of local political bosses.
Butsince the 1976 Supreme Court ruling that the First Amendment rightto free speech bars limits on a candidate's spending of his or herown money, millionaires have had an unchallenged license to testthe political waters.Indeed, politicians here and around the country said, Checchi'smoney had less to do with his defeat than how he chose to spend it.Even after 18 months crisscrossing the state talking to voters and3 months of television commercials touting his private sectoraccomplishments and teaching voters how to pronounce his name(CHECK-ee), he drew about as many unfavorable ratings from pollrespondents as favorable ones not good news for any candidate.Then, when Rep. Jane Harman, herself a millionaire, entered therace and promptly took the lead in public opinion polls, Checchiunleashed a relentless barrage of commercials attacking her, oftenin misleading terms.
That helped destroy Ms. Harman, who spent some$16 million of family money on her campaign.
But, in a kind ofmurder-suicide, it also quadrupled Checchi's own negative ratingsand created an opening for Davis, who had been saving hisadvertising money for the final stretch.In the race for the Republican Senate nomination to challengeSen.
Barbara Boxer, Darrell Issa, a multimillionaire car alarmmanufacturer who spent about $10 million, lost to state TreasurerMatt Fong, but only after a wave of harshly critical news accountsraised questions about Issa's business record and tactics.Rich candidates have lost spectacularly in the past, of course,including the cosmetics heir Ronald Lauder, who spent $14 millionin the 1989 Republican mayoral primary in New York City, and lostto Rudolph Giuliani, who spent $2.5 million and won 67 percent ofthe vote.In California, former Rep. Michael Huffington, a Republican oilheir, set the previous national record for individual spending herefour years ago, by pouring nearly $30 million of his family fortuneinto a nearly successful campaign against Sen. Dianne Feinstein.But Checchi's resounding defeat still set off ripples of shock,precisely because Huffington, who was widely regarded as apolitical and intellectual lightweight, came so close, and becauseChecchi, an altogether more serious figure, spent about 30 percentmore in the primary alone than Huffington spent in his primary andgeneral election combined.In general in recent years, polls have shown that most votersare neutral-to-positive about candidates who finance their owncampaigns, while support for public campaign financing is oftentepid.
But as this year's campaign wore on, voters here seemedtaken aback by the sheer reach of Checchi's record-breaking effort.A poll in April by the Public Policy Institute of Californiafound that 6 in 10 voters were indifferent to a candidate'sdecision to finance his own campaign, but by May, voters indicateda marked preference, 52 percent to 34 percent, for candidates whotook the conventional route of collecting money from supporters.In his final days on the campaign trail, Checchi went low-tech,riding a yellow school bus around the state to highlight hisproposals for fixing the state's troubled schools, and publiclylamenting that his rivals had outfoxed him by turning the race intoa debate about his money instead of his ideas.The phrase appeared as far back as the early 1970s, uttered inprivate conversations by Pakistani leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, inreference to his country's hopes to go nuclear.
In the atmosphereof the time, it seemed a serious warning: that once one Islamicnation had nuclear weapons, it would enhance the power of them all.But is there such a thing as a bomb that exists for the sake ofIslam and for the destruction of Israel?
Or do the phrase and theoratory about it reveal other things instead a hunger and rivalryfor greatness by major Islamic countries, and the depth of Israel'sanxieties?There is, today at least, no special reason to believe thatPakistan's newly declared ability to build a nuclear arsenal willprovide a nuclear umbrella for other Islamic societies, or thatthose other countries will find it easier to go nuclear themselves.Yes, the idea of a global pan-Islamic community with a commondivine mission on earth has been trumpeted in Islamic oratory overthe years.
But so far national interests have prevailed.
Iran'sAyatollah Ruhollah Khomeini learned that lesson after he tried and failed to export his Islamic revolution.Granted, Pakistan got some help from Muslim countries like Libyaand Saudi Arabia years ago for its nuclear program.
But much moreimportant support came from other places: blueprints, enricheduranium, tritium and scientific know-how from China; technology(stolen) from the Netherlands.
And the United States gave its tacitconsent all during the years that Pakistan's help was needed in theAfghan conflict.Now that Pakistan, which desperately needs financial aid, hasoffended the United States by staging its nuclear tests, it wouldseem to be in Pakistan's interest to keep its technology fromspreading something that would only offend the United Statesmore.
Even if Pakistan decided to export its technology at a futurepoint, the reasons would most likely have nothing to do withreligion.One reason is the utterances of Muslims themselves, who over theyears have publicly declared the need for an Islamic bomb.Gen.
Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, who ousted Bhutto and had him hanged,condemned the rest of the world in 1986 for branding Pakistan'sbomb Islamic but in the same breath promoted the notion.Another reason the notion persists is that Israel and itssupporters have long found it convenient to demonize Islamic statesand movements whose leaders find it convenient to assertreligion-based claims to Jerusalem.
For the Israelis, the idea thatIslamic fervor could go nuclear provides a justification formaintaining its own unacknowledged nuclear arsenal.Over the long run, the most serious impact of the nuclearexplosions by Pakistan and India within the Islamic world maybe to revive the lust of rivals among the Islamic nations topossess their own nuclear weapons.Pakistan is, after all, a peer of a number of Middle Easterncountries with grand ambitions and an even grander sense of theirplace in the world's history Iranians who identify with ancientPersia, Iraqis who remember Nebuchadnezzar, Egyptians who hark backto the pharoahs and Syrians prideful of the ancient glories ofDamascus.All can ask: Who are these upstart Pakistanis to think they leadthe Islamic world?
What about us?Officially, Egypt has underscored that the recent nuclear testsprove just how urgent it is the make the Middle East a nuclear-freezone.
But some Egyptian commentators implied that Arab countriesmade a mistake in signing on to the Nuclear NonproliferationTreaty.UNITED NATIONS It has become an article of faith among thosewho oppose abortion in the United States that promoting abortionanywhere else, particularly in the world's poorest countries, istantamount to an attack on the cultures of those countries.
It is anew argument from the conservative right, but it echoes chargesthat the radical left used to make, to the effect that familyplanning programs targeted at the Third World were a kind ofneo-imperialistic genocide.A statistical look around the world shows that if culturalsensitivities are reflected in laws about abortion, there is aremarkable divide between richer countries and poorer ones whereabortion and its effects are concerned.
But other statisticsdemonstrate that the pattern of legality does not reflect how womenin those societies choose to act.In the global south, where abortion laws are the mostrestrictive, abortion rates are still quite high; deaths fromabortion are much higher there than elsewhere, because theabortions tend to be unsafe.
The industrial countries of the globalnorth are almost universally less restrictive in their abortionlaws.
They also have the lowest rates of abortion-related deaths.Of about 20 million unsafe sometimes legal, but more oftenillegal abortions estimated to take place each year worldwide, 90percent occur in developing countries, according to the WorldHealth Organization.
Of the 80,000 deaths that result, 95 percentare in poor nations.
That number does not include women who die ofmiscarriages due to health problems or poor prenatal care; suchdata do not exist.The anti-colonial case has been made forcefully by Rep.Christopher Smith, R-N.J., who has blocked U.S. payments to theUnited Nations with an amendment denying money to any organizationthat lobbies for liberalized abortion laws in any country.
Smith, asupporter of international child survival programs, says helpingpoor children, not preventing them from being born, should be thepriority of foreign aid.His legislation, which President Clinton has vowed to veto whenit reaches his desk, has created alarm among family planning andwomen's health organizations, who see its bar to advocatingabortion as a challenge to free speech and a chilling factor thatwould reduce the amount of money going to all types of populationwork, including contraception, in the poorest countries, where theythink it is needed most.Family planning organizations and women's health groups do notargue that abortion should be encouraged as a method of birthcontrol.
But they do argue for less restrictive laws in manycountries on the ground that such laws would cut deaths.
They alsosay family planning and community health groups in Africa, Asia andLatin America have to deal with the results of botched andlife-threatening abortions, sometimes by completing the process ofclearing the womb a procedure that would put them on the wrongside of U.S. law if Smith's proposal were adopted.Because family planning services are not available to millionsof women who want them more than 350 million in the developingworld, according to surveys they turn to abortion, even whereillegal, and will continue to do so as a last resort, experts say.Of course, the Pentagon still hands out plenty of Purple Heartsand Bronze Stars.
But the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highesthonor, has been awarded only twice for valorous action since theVietnam War: to two Army sergeants killed in Somalia in 1993 asthey tried to help wounded comrades.Eight World War II veterans, including seven who were denied themedal because they were black, have also received the medal in thepast two years.In wars past, that meant a bloodied pilot flying a crippledbomber back to base in war-torn Europe, miraculously saving thelives of his crew.
Or a lone infantryman in an Asian junglefighting off hostile forces to rescue injured comrades behind enemylines.Bravery like that is hard to come by now, when the conflictsthat U.S. troops engage in are typically brief affairs in whichunmanned Tomahawk cruise missiles have replaced firefights and tankbattles.When the Congressional Medal of Honor Society meets this weekendin Saratoga Springs, N.Y., more than half of the 163 livingrecipients are expected to attend.
Since 1863, 3,399 people havereceived the award, including one woman, Mary Walker, a Civil Warsurgeon from Oswego, N.Y.While Pentagon officials insist the stringent requirements inthe statutes have not changed, some retired brass fear politics hascolored the selection process recently.
There was even somesurprise at the Pentagon when President Clinton and Congressapproved the awards for the sergeants killed in Somalia.Was there a chance that rewarding the soldiers' unquestionablegallantry was a way to salve the wounds of a nation badly shaken bythe tragedy?
Absolutely not, say Pentagon officials.Given the reverence for valor in the military culture, it ishard for civilians to understand the prestige the medal bestows onits recipient.
There are concrete benefits: an extra $400-a-monthpension and a lifetime pass for military aircraft.
But theintangibles are equally significant.As an unrelenting defender of the idea that we need tounderstand history, I was pleased to learn of the current essaycontest in which writers are asked to explain why they'd like todine on a gourmet meal in the cemetery where President James A.Garfield is buried.
I apologize if I'm the one to break the news to you aboutGarfield's demise.
But it was in all the papers in the summer of1881, when Charles J. Guiteau, known to history as a disappointedoffice seeker, shot Garfield at a railroad station in Washington,D.C., only a few months into Garfield's term.
Garfield, of tough Ohio stock, did not immediately go flatlineand sprout wings, however.
Rather, he signed an extradition paperas his last official act and then slipped into long and awkwardunconsciousness.
At any rate, Garfield no relation to the cat finally cashedin his chips on Sept. 19, 1881, some 80 days after the disgruntledGuiteau plugged him.
I cannot find any record of whether this madeGuiteau a little more gruntled, but perhaps my research has notbeen thorough enough.
Garfield's remains were hauled off to Lake View Cemetery at12316 Euclid Ave. in Cleveland, Ohio, 44106-4393.
I heave in thefull address here because you need it to enter this 50-word essaycontest, and quickly, too.
The deadline is Thursday (6-11) and youneed an entry form.
(Call 216-421-2665.)
I have been to Cleveland dozens of times but never to the 285acres that make up Lake View Cemetery, where, by the way, John D.Rockefeller also is buried, to say nothing (and I intend to saynothing) of Eliot Ness' ashes.
So if I myself enter this contest, I will use as one of myreasons for wanting to win my deep (about six feet) desire to cometo a place I've never visited.
(Never having been there before isalso the only reason I can think of for my hope one day to visitIdaho.)
If you enter this contest, you will need to provide a reason forwanting to win, besides simply being hungry and willing to satisfythat hunger while hanging out at the Garfield Monument inCleveland.
You might, for instance, feign interest in Garfield's youth,during which his father (apparently not of very tough stock) diedwhen James was barely 2 years old.
Or perhaps you could say you'vealways been intrigued by anyone whose early schooling was done at aplace named the Western Reserve Eclectic Institute in Hiram, Ohio.
I certainly have never known anyone who attended anything calledan Eclectic Institute.
The closest was my childhood friend BobLippold who, as I recall, once went to an electric institute,though probably that's not all that close.
Another approach would be to focus on how a man who gained somuch so quickly also lost it with equally blazing speed.
For, you see, Garfield, who probably would have been a goodpresident, served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 18years, becoming chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, oneof a handful of such committees always preceded by the wordpowerful.
But in 1880 the Ohio legislature elected him to the U.S.Senate, which was how, back then, senators were picked.
That very same year, the Republican national convention inChicago got divided between James G. Blaine and U.S. Grant, so itchose Garfield on the 36th ballot.
In November he beat WinfieldHancock, the Democrat, by a hair.
Less than a year later Garfield was decomposing in Cleveland.
Ifyou can't compose a compelling essay with these facts, maybe you,too, should be shot.
WASHINGTON To Republicans intent on damning the tax code as aninequitable tangle that is strangling the American family, SharonMallory's appearance before the House Ways and Means Committee afew months back was just the ticket.
Miss Mallory, a 41-year-oldfactory worker from Indiana, testified that she and her live-inboyfriend, Darryl Pierce, would like to get married but could notafford the $3,700 in additional taxes it would cost them.Fueled by such anecdotal outrage, Congress is well on its waytoward overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many two-incomecouples into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if theywere single.The House took a big step in that direction Friday, adopting abudget plan that makes eliminating the marriage penalty the No.
1Republican tax goal this year.But if the political appeal of attacking the marriage penalty isclear, the policy arguments are less so.More couples actually get a break from the way the tax codetreats marriage than pay a penalty.
Single people who are alreadyat an economic disadvantage to couples, since they cannot spreadtheir living costs over two incomes would get nothing.And the cost of eliminating or substantially reducing thepenalty for those who do pay it would be huge.
Many Republicansworry that it would crowd out other tax-cutting priorities, andDemocrats fret about lost spending opportunities.Making the case for keeping the marriage penalty is atreacherous business for members of both parties, few of whom arewilling to risk being seen as undermining a venerated institution.The budget plan approved by the House on Friday would provide asmuch as $100 million over the next five years to eradicate orsubstantially reduce the marriage penalty.In the Senate, both parties are seeking ways to use some of therevenues that would be generated by the proposed tobaccolegislation to reduce the marriage penalty.
Sen. Phil Gramm,R-Texas, is developing a plan that would give a break to couplesearning less than $50,000, including those who are not affected bythe marriage penalty.
Democrats are developing a narrower versionintended to help only couples who pay more because of the marriagetax.But the growing momentum for a quick fix belies the complexityof addressing the marriage penalty.For one thing, the penalty is hardly universal.
While more than20 million couples paid more in taxes in 1996 than they would haveif they were single, 25 million couples got a marriage bonus: Theypaid less as a couple than they would have if they were single.Most of the bonuses already go to the very families that socialconservatives consider the most traditional those in which thehusband works and the wife stays home.
That is because the husbandwould be entitled to more exemptions and deductions than he gotwhen he was single.
For 1996, total bonuses of $32.9 billion, or$1,300 per couple, outweighed total penalties of $28.8 billion, or$1,380 per couple, by $4.1 billion.Moreover, substantially reducing or eliminating the penaltywithout raising taxes elsewhere would cost the federal governmentat least $20 billion a year.And while social conservatives want to allocate as much money aspossible to reducing the penalty, business groups and supply-sideRepublicans and economists are queasy about allowing the issue tocrowd out cuts in other areas, like income tax rates, capital gainstaxes and inheritance taxes.
Cuts that target a specific group areconsidered by many economists to be an inefficient way of promotingeconomic growth.Perhaps most fundamentally, lawmakers have long found itdifficult to address the marriage penalty without creating someother perceived inequity.
Most of the proposals would do nothingfor single people.
Most of the proposed fixes would also give morehelp to people at the top of the income scale than those at thebottom.And some of the proposals would complicate the problem bylevying different amounts of taxes on couples with the samecombined incomes.The current law is the product of decades of swings in policyand public opinion about how to treat the income of married couplesin a way that is fair to two-income families, single-earnercouples, unmarried people and people across the income spectrum.When the federal income tax was established in 1913, it waslevied on individuals, with no special provision made for marriedcouples.
Starting in the 1920s, when relatively few married womenworked, some states passed laws allowing married couples to splittheir income and pay at a lower rate than the husband would if hehad to file as an individual.In 1948, Congress responded by changing the law to allow jointfiling, widening tax brackets enough that most married couples paidless than if they were single.Soon protests about the marriage penalty were heard.
Best knownof the protesters were David and Angela Boyter, federal employeesfrom Baltimore who would divorce for tax purposes each December andthen remarry early in the new year to reduce their taxes.
Congressresponded by creating a two-earner deduction in 1981.But the deduction was eliminated in 1986.
Since then, as thenumber of two-income couples has increased, more people have becamesubject to the marriage penalty.
And the pressure to fix themarriage penalty has increased accordingly.Michael Jordan may be the best basketball player in history.
Hemay have more trophies and rings and sneaker contracts than any manon the planet.
He may even, as Fortune magazine has justcalculated, have contributed $10 billion to the global economy overthe last decade.But he has not yet made the big leap that, if Wall Street hasits way, is in the future for all sorts of athletes and artists:the leap from marketable commodity to tradeable security.Entertainers are the least of it.
Wall Street is securitizingvirtually everything that produces a predictable stream of cash.Typhoon insurance.
Tax liens.
Loans for used cars and fraternityhouses.
Fax machine leases.
Mutual-fund fees.
Unused airlinetickets.
Movies yet to be made.
Even defunct power plants.The alchemy by which Wall Street turns stuff into securitiesvaries.
The old-fashioned method is the stock offering, which hasbeen used by a number of sports teams.
But there are risks forcelebrities who go public: both Debbie Reynolds' casino and WiltChamberlain's restaurant chain bombed in the stock market.Then there are derivatives, so called because their prices arederived from the value of something else, like an index or asecurity or a commodity.
Some involve relatively straightforwardbets on things like the price of soybeans or Microsoft shares.
Theinfamous variety like the ones that got Orange County, Calif., introuble often involve wagers so arcane as to be inexplicable.
Inthe works are derivatives that let investors bet on the temperatureor rainfall in a geographic region.But the really big idea on Wall Street today is securitization,which began with home mortgages in the 1980s.
Banks had made a lotof them and wanted to sell them, but to whom?Then someone had a bright idea.
If Wall Street put together awhole bunch of mortgages, the bundles would look almost liketraditional bonds.
They would be relatively safe investments,because even if one borrower defaulted, there would be plenty ofothers still paying.
Bond buyers, like mutual funds, pension fundsand amateur investors, jumped on these mortgage-backed securities.This led to a creative burst on Wall Street.
If securities couldbe made out of mortgages, why not car loans, credit-cardreceivables, business loans or bad debts?The newest and sexiest twist involves using streams of incomefrom entertainers.
In the first such deal, rock star David Bowiesold $55 million of bonds last year backed by his anticipatedroyalties.Creating such deals has proved harder than many investmentbankers predicted, and the securities have been so complicated thatthey are offered only to professional investors.
Nonetheless,several Wall Street firms have set up entertainment subsidiaries,like one at Nomura that raised money for Rod Stewart.David Pullman, the investment banker who successfully sold theBowie and Motown deals, says he has more up his sleeve.
Filmlibraries, television syndications, literary estates all could beturned into securities, says Pullman, a managing director atFahnestock Co., a New York-based securities firm.One of the few who might qualify is Michael Jordan, of course.If Fortune is right, he'd be rated triple-A.
Stockbrokers will bestanding by to take your call.WASHINGTON Monica Lewinsky has her new legal dream team.
Shewill also surely have bigger bills to go along with the biggernames now defending her.Yet despite the fact that she comes from a well-off family, herability to carry this growing financial burden is open to question.This is undoubtedly weighing on the 24-year-old Ms. Lewinsky andher parents as legal activity on her behalf intensifies, and shefaces the critical decision of whether to cooperate with or fightagainst the sex-and-coverup investigation of the White House byindependent counsel Kenneth Starr.Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein, whom she retained last week, areboth senior members of a select coterie of Washington lawyers.They've performed legal triage for a host of players in pastpolitical scandals, from Fawn Hall, the secretary caught up in theIran-Contra affair, to Ken Parkinson, a Watergate figure whoseacquittal Stein won.Their services do not come cheaply.
Both men have hourly billingrates in the range of $400 an hour.And Ms. Lewinsky is already deep in the hole.
When the finalbill is tallied, she'll likely owe more than $300,000 to her firstlegal team, led by William Ginsburg, the family friend who servedas her principal lawyer until he was dismissed Tuesday; so sayGinsburg and others familiar with the Lewinsky case.Her expensive new retinue, worthy of her star billing in one ofthe biggest controversies to rock Washington, is not limited toCacheris and Stein.
There is also Nathaniel Speights, a Washingtontrial lawyer who worked with Ginsburg and will remain on Ms.Lewinsky's legal team.
And a month ago Judy Smith, a respectedlawyer who once worked in the Bush White House, was retained by theLewinskys as family spokeswoman.Ms.
Lewinsky grew up in rarefied Beverly Hills and her father,Bernard Lewinsky, who now lives in nearby Brentwood, is asuccessful oncologist.
Her mother, Marcia Lewis, long divorced fromher father, has apartments at the posh Watergate complex inWashington and in New York.
But despite being financiallycomfortable amid trappings of wealth, family friends say, theparents are not so rich as to absorb the six-figure legal billstheir daughter is incurring.Ginsburg has said that Ms. Lewinsky would eventually have nochoice but to write a book or sell her story in order to pay offher legal bills.
But no one has approached her or her family withany such offer recently.
And any tell-all deal would certainly haveto wait until Ms. Lewinsky was out of legal jeopardy, a prospectprobably months away at the very least, if not years.In part to minimize her legal expenses, Ms. Lewinsky did filingand other routine office chores for Ginsburg and Speights.
But thiswas as much to fill her time as to make a dent in her debts.As the subject of intense public scrutiny, Ms. Lewinsky can't domuch of anything these days, in terms of producing income orotherwise, except to meet with her lawyers or stay secluded withone of her parents.
When she goes out in public, a fleet of TVcameras is almost always in tow.
Several weeks ago, a camera crewstaked out a bank branch near Speights' office in downtownWashington, where Ms. Lewinsky had been using a cash machine.In part to lift her sagging spirits, Ms. Lewinsky recently posedin Malibu for a photo spread in Vanity Fair magazine.
But accordingto a spokeswoman for the magazine, Ms. Lewinsky wasn't paidanything.
And although she got to model some spiffy clothes, shedidn't get to keep them.On the other hand, her high-profile dinners at swank Washingtonrestaurants with the ubiquitous Ginsburg do not appear to haveadded to her legal bills; some of the restaurants may have fed themgratis in return for the publicity of having such celebratedguests.Ms.
Lewinsky is hardly alone in worrying about how to pay herlawyers.
After disbanding his legal defense fund, President Clintonhas established a new fund to help pay the more than $5 million heowes to his lawyers at Williams Connolly and Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher.Paula Jones, who sued the president for sexual harassment onlyto have her case thrown out of court this year, is in a tussle withtwo of her lawyers over $800,000 the lawyers say she owes them.
Anda slew of current and former White House aides have amassedsix-figure legal bills as witnesses in Starr's $40 million inquiry.Of course, the marquee value of representing a client like Ms.Lewinsky is considerable, and therefore her new lawyers may bewilling to discount their rates or be patient about getting paid.There could even be lucrative book offers down the road, but lastweek they vowed to maintain a lower profile than Ginsburg, byavoiding the TV talk-show circuit.And for the time being, at least, the lawyers are under ordersto scrimp where they can.
One specific request: no limousines tosee Starr.PARIS Transportation strikes are an annoying fact of life inFrance, yet most people sympathize with the strikers when thesubways shut down or truckers block the highways.
After all, truckdrivers and railway workers don't make much money, and employersseldom penalize workers for not showing up during transit strikes,so it's easy to wish the strikers well.But the renowned Gallic sang-froid was severely tested last weekby a strike by pilots at Air France, the state-owned airline, justdays before the nation plays host to the World Cup, the WorldSeries of soccer.The pilots, whose average annual salary of $123,000 makes thembetter paid than their counterparts at other major Europeancarriers like Lufthansa and British Airways, were protesting amanagement plan to trim their pay by an average of $26,000 over thenext three to five years, and replace the income with stockoptions.With Air France, the official carrier for the World Cup, able tofly only a fraction of its schedule, the French public wasoutraged, for the first time in years, by what many saw as greedypilots.
A poll published by Paris-Match last week showed that only47 percent of those polled supported holding a transportationstrike during the World Cup.
In December 1995, 62 percent of thosesurveyed sympathized with striking rail and transport workers; inNovember 1996, 74 percent supported striking truck drivers.Chevenement and Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin wereelected a year ago by voters who never forgave Jospin'sconservative predecessor, Alain Juppe, for trying to cut thepension benefits of the rail and transit workers in 1995 as part ofan unpopular government austerity plan to prepare for the comingsingle European currency.
When strikers shut down rail and masstransit networks, the country was paralyzed, but with Christmasapproaching many workers were just as happy to back the strikersand stay home.This time things were different.
The irony of a Socialist-ledgovernment criticizing strikers is only one of many contradictionsin the latest episode in France's struggle to pull its cossetedwelfare-state economy into the 21st century.Chevenement even had to deny rumors that he was consideringcalling in the French equivalent of the National Guard to replacethe strikers the way that President Ronald Reagan replaced strikingAmerican air traffic controllers in the early 1980s.The French feel as strongly about soccer as they do about socialjustice.
Taxpayers put up $450 million for a new stadium in Parisfor the World Cup, and Air France planes have been splashed withbright color pictures of players from 32 countries.
Buses in Parisdisplay welcome signs in many languages, and special trains havebeen arranged to transport fans and players among the 10 cities inwhich the 64 games will be played.France's national honor is at stake, the authorities keepreminding people.
No American-style private-sector improvisation, ala Atlanta during the last Olympics and Denver during the 1994World Cup, would do for the glory of France.With a sense that the eyes of the world were on them, manyFrench felt indignation when transportation unions started in withbusiness as usual by trying to hold up employers for ransom justwhen their work was most needed.The pilots were not the only ones on the picket lines, thoughtruck drivers, who shut down the country's roads in 1997 and theyear before to get higher wages, promised they wouldn't think ofinconveniencing their fellow citizens during the World Cup, whichends July 12.A union representing 30 percent of the engineers for the staterailway network called a strike to begin on the eve of the Cupopening.
Conductors struck and disrupted rail traffic around thecountry Friday.
Public transportation in Lyons, where five gameswill be played, was shut down by a strike Tuesday, and workers onthe Paris municipal transportation system threatened another forthis week.But it was the pilots who bore the brunt of public resentment.The French are notoriously suspicious of people who are betteroff than they are, to the point of making anonymous telephone callsto Finance Ministry inspectors to tip them off to people withlavish life styles (one reason why owners of luxury homes in Parisoften hide them behind dilapidated building facades).So it was difficult to muster much sympathy for the well-paidpilots, who after all were not striking for better wages butdemanding cash instead of stock options as part of their salarieswhen Air France is partly privatized later this year.The airline said it needed to cut its annual payroll by $84million to make itself more competitive in the European market, butmany French regard the stock market as a sort of untrustworthygambling casino.
As elsewhere in Europe, there is great resistancehere to the idea of supplementing state pensions with the privateinvestment plans that make union pension funds such big players inthe stock market in America.WASHINGTON Niccolo Machiavelli had it right: never assume theother guy will never do something you would never do.
Too badMachiavelli never worked for the CIA.The world might be less dangerous than it is today had the CIAand its sister intelligence services foreseen India's nuclear testslast month.
Armed with that foresight, the United States might havebeen able to forestall a test, as it did back in 1995, and thusprevent an arms race in one of the planet's least pacific places.A report last week by retired Adm. David Jeremiah, a former vicechairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, blamed the failure onsystemic flaws in the way the intelligence community gathers andhandles information, trains its thousands of analysts and commandsits $27-billion-a-year empire.Instead, he said, U.S. analysts decided that the newly electedHindu nationalist political party, the BJP, couldn't possibly beserious when it campaigned on a nuclear weapons platform.Westerners saw good reasons for India to eschew testing andtherefore thought Indians must understand their own best intereststhe same way.Failing to follow such counsel led the United States to believethat Japan would never attack Pearl Harbor and that Saddam Husseinwould never invade Kuwait.There is something peculiarly American about the trap ofmirror-imaging.
Americans overseas like foreigners to speak, dress,eat and entertain as Americans do.
They may well believe thateverybody also thinks as they do.
The whole world buys Big Macs so the ideas must come along with them, like a side of fries.
Thisway of thinking meant that, last month, the United Statesgovernment looked down at India from its spy satellites and sawthe United States.What does this say about the state of U.S. intelligence?
First,mirror-imaging filled a void.
America had few or no spies in Indiareporting on the nuclear program.
So its analysts had to thinkwithout the benefit of facts.In its defense, the CIA was not the only outfit in Washingtonthat had a mirror where its crystal ball should be.
So had theWhite House, the Pentagon and the State Department.The agency's reporting on Pakistan's subsequent nuclear testswas prescient and precise.
But Jeremiah found the CIA misreadIndia's nuclear ambitions because it was short on insight,expertise, training and leadership a strange state of affairs foran intelligence agency created to be the deepest think tank in theworld.David Cone, the New York Yankees right-hander, was nipped on theindex finger of his pitching hand by his mother's dog and had toyield his turn in the pitching rotation to Orlando (El Duque)Hernandez, newly defected from Cuba.
Thus a minor bite by a JackRussell terrier named Veronica facilitated the storybook odyssey ofa gifted pitcher, from ostracism in his Communist homeland to avictorious debut in Yankee Stadium on Wednesday night.Developments on the dog-bite front aren't usually so uplifting.That was also clear last week for in case you didn't notice (andit's a good bet David Cone didn't) it was National Dog BitePrevention Week.The sponsors, the U.S.
Postal Service and the Humane Society ofthe United States, say that each day man's best friend chomps downon 12,000 Americans mostly children, but also 7 postal employeesdaily on average for a total of more than 4 million dog bitesannually.
The cost?
Ouch: hundreds of millions of dollars annuallyin medical bills and liability claims.The close association between humans and domesticated dogs beganat least 12,000 years ago.
Since then, people have been intimatelyinvolved in domesticating the wild dog into hunter, guard andcompanion.
However, the domesticated dog retains many of its wildinstincts, including behaviors that all too often lead to humanattacks.
This risk has always been present.
Only now, however, arewe beginning to gain a full understanding of the impact of dogbites on populations.Recent work by Sacks et al has improved the precision ofnational estimates for dog bite-related mortality and for dog bitesreceiving any medical attention.
For the 10-year period 1979through 1988, an annual average of about 15 fatal dog attacks wasdocumented in the United States, with extrapolated estimatessuggesting that as many as 20 per year may have actually occurred.Based on a random household survey, the Injury Control and RiskSurvey conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,it was estimated that about 800,000 bites occur annually thatrequire medical attention.
(BEGIN ITALICS HERE)Of course, there are many minor bites thatgo without medical attention.
But by sifting national data onemergency-room visits, the researchers were able to focus on themost serious injuries:(END ITALICS HERE)The annualized weighted estimate of the incidence of new dogbite-related injuries seen in U.S.
E.D.
's (emergency departments)was 333,687 (annually) for a rate of 12.9 per 10,000 persons.
Theseinjuries comprised about 0.4 percent of all emergency-departmentvisits during the study period.
. . .Ages of victims of dog bite-related injuries ranged from youngerthan 1 year to 91 years (median age: 15 years).
Incidence rateswere significantly higher among children aged 0 to 9 years,especially among boys.
The 5- to 9-year-old male age group had thehighest rate, 60.7 emergency-department visits per 10,000 persons.The estimated 57,580 dog bite-related visits for boys aged 5 to 9years represent 3.6 percent of all injury-relatedemergency-department visits in this age and sex group.Among the cases in which body part area could be determined(about two thirds of the cases), the face, neck and head (combined)were the leading body-part sites affected (29 percent), followed bythe upper limbs and lower limbs.
Among children aged 0 to 9 years,73 percent of the injuries with attributed injury site were to theface, head and neck, while all other ages had only 30 percent ofthe injuries occur to the head, face and neck.
There was anonsignificant trend toward a seasonal distribution of theincidence of dog bite injuries, with the highest rates beingobserved during the summer months.Every animal is an individual and his/her character andpersonality traits are determined by much more than geneticbackground.
Not every border collie is intelligent, nor is everycollie loyal to his/her owner.
Certainly, not every rottweiler, pitbull or German shepherd is a dangerous dog.
. . .Data on human fatalities from dog bites do tend to implicatespecific breeds of dogs as killers.
Of the dog breeds or breedmixes known to have caused human fatalities from 1979 through 1994,five breeds alone account for more than one of every three of thosedeaths the pit bull (57), rottweiler (19), German shepherd (17),Siberian husky (12) and Alaskan malamute (12).
. . .Unfortunately, data linking breeds with NONFATAL bites are hardto come by.
There is no nationwide reporting agency for animalbites; therefore, information about which breeds of dogs mostcommonly bite is unavailable.Q.
If a dog is sleeping in the yard, it is a good idea toquietly slip by so you don't disturb the dog.
True or false?A.
FALSE.
Dogs have keen senses; under these conditions, youwould probably startle the dog and increase the possibility of anattack.
The right procedure?
Make a soft noise, such as a lowwhistle, so the dog won't be surprised.
Keep your eye on the dog,and if you must withdraw, back up slowly and carefully to avoid afall.Q.
Turning away and retreating quickly from a dog will probablyprevent you from being bitten.
True or false?A.
FALSE.
Turning and running often increases the dog'sexcitement and provides an opportunity for it to bite while yourback is turned.
The proper procedure?
Stand your ground initially;face the dog; use a purse, briefcase, book, coat or jacket as ashield between you and the dog; and back away slowly.Though he has had a distinguished 15-year career, Yzerman didn'tachieve a great deal of recognition until last year.
Ironically,that recognition comes as his offensive numbers are diminishing.After being strictly an offensive gun from 1987-88 through 1992-93 when he had more than 100 points each season Yzerman has becomea strong, dependable two-way player.This year he had 69 points in the regular season, 24 of themgoals.
In the playoffs, which concluded Tuesday when Detroitfinished its sweep of the Washington Capitals, Yzerman had 6 goalsand 24 points in 22 games.Yzerman, like Bruins captain Ray Bourque, would like to have acareer that spans 20 years.On a night when the leaderboard changed at the top of theAmerican League West, the bottom stayed the same.
The AnaheimAngels took over first place ahead of the Texas Rangers and buriedthe Mariners a little deeper in the basement with a 3-2 victorybefore 27,952 fans at Edison Field.Swift, the Mariner staff leader in wins with six, absorbed themost pain in Seattle's ninth loss in 12 games againstCalifornia-based teams, suffering a bruised right pectoral musclewhen clobbered by a line drive in the second inning.
Although hisstatus is listed as day-to-day, the veteran sounded as though hisnext turn is in jeopardy.Tuesday night, Angels second baseman Justin Baughman hit a linedrive up the middle and Swift barely had time to react.
He ducked,turned his head and put his glove up for protection.
The ball hitthe right side of Swift's chest.The stunned pitcher retrieved the ball between the mound andfirst base, underhanded a throw to Segui and continued toward theMariner dugout, being met by manager Lou Piniella and trainer RickGriffin.Swift shrugged off the pain, returned to the mound and finishedthe inning.
But after watching the right-hander throw severalwarmup tosses before the third inning, Piniella went to the mound,put his arm around Swift's shoulders and made a pitching change.Swift said he tried to continue, but he could feel tightnessdeveloping and returned to the clubhouse for treatment.As poorly as the Mariners have played defense this season, Seguiwas the exception.
He had no errors through the first 69 games.Segui misplayed Darin Erstad's inning-opening grounder in thefirst and ex-Mariner Dave Hollins doubled to right.
Jim Edmondsthen delivered a two-run single to right field.The bobble forced Segui to hold the runner on base and open ahole between first and second.
Hollins found it with a line drive.The Angels, knocking the Rangers out of first place for thefirst time since April 7, scored the eventual game-winning run inthe third inning off Bob Wells.After Segui's double put runners on second and third with oneout, Edgar Martinez hit a run-scoring infield out and GlenallenHill scored another with his second double of the game.But until the sixth, another familiar Mariner problemre-emerged: the inability to get hits with runners in scoringposition.
Seattle had runners on second base in each of the firstfour innings and none advanced.PARIS Tab Ramos was just one of 22 clueless Americans eightyears ago on an adventure they had no hope to comprehend.
Throwninto the World Cup the United States' first since 1950 the Yanksarrived in Italy as tourists, as rank amateurs taking on seasonedpros.
They found themselves headed home, humiliated, just two weekslater.It's a memory that popped into his head Monday night as helooked on in disgust as the Americans, now professionals with WorldCup aspirations, were overpowered by Germany in their World Cupopener.
He couldn't abide the hesitation in the United States'play, the manner with which they backed down to the Germans in thefirst 45 minutes of the clash at Parc des Princes.Balboa, too, was part of that team; Lalas was in the stands, hisface painted red, white and blue, his dreams of Cup glory stillfour years off.
They didn't enjoy what they saw Monday night,either, but it was Ramos who felt he must speak out.The reasons behind that are arguable.
Some, Reyna included,believe Coach Steve Sampson left too many experienced playersRamos, Balboa and Lalas included on the bench.
Others, among themSampson, think the Yanks reacted poorly after surrendering an earlygoal and couldn't bounce back.
Whatever the reason, it wasn't apretty sight; aside from the first 15 minutes or so of the secondhalf, the United States had no business being on the field withGermany.That would be the end of the Americans' Cup.
A victory over theIranians is essential to keeping its second-round hopes alive, andsome sort of positive result a win or a tie; we won't know whichuntil after Sunday also is necessary against Yugoslavia on June 25.Ramos hopes to make an impact against Iran.
Sampson has told himhe'll start in that game, probably in place of Ernie Stewart.Frankie Hejduk, who nearly pulled the Americans even with a fineheader in the 53rd minute, also will be in the lineup, if one hearsthe messages Sampson is sending; he'll step in for Mike Burns, ashe did at halftime on Monday.
The other potential change from thefirst-game lineup would be Roy Wegerle in place of Eric Wynalda,but Sampson said Tuesday he has not yet made a determination on astarting forward.It was clear from the first minute how Germany planned toneutralize the Americans take midfielder Claudio Reyna out of thematch and their plan worked to perfection.Reyna, whom the Germans were familiar with from his work withBundesliga straggler VfL Wolfsburg, received a blow to the kidneyfrom Jens Jeremies just seconds into Monday's clash, and the 1860Munich midfielder beat up on Reyna the rest of the night.The biggest criticism of Reyna, widely considered the greatestplayer the United States has produced, is that he doesn't likephysical play.
Expect the Iranians and Yugoslavs to treat him in asimilar manner.Winger Frankie Hejduk, the surfer-turned-soccer star who madethe biggest impact for the Americans on Monday, took a page frombaseball superstition and twisted it in an effort to overcome theGermans.Eric Wynalda, who didn't manage even a shot in 63 minutes as theAmericans' striker, says he knew things were going wrong almostfrom then start.As the 98th U.S. Open unfolds Thursday at The Olympic Club, theground has shifted, something that happens a lot in this town.
Theguy with the goatee and wraparound sunglasses belongs inside theropes, not outside them.
In fact, put David Duval not Tiger Woods at the top of golf's leader board.For 12 months, since the previous U.S. Open at CongressionalCountry Club in Bethesda, Md., Duval has ruled the game like noother.
Check the win column.
Check his bank statements.Duval, 27, a Jacksonville, Fla., native and son of a Senior PGATour player, carefully sidesteps the issue of whether he is golf'stop player now.
But he didn't dismiss it.Of course, Duval's absolute brilliance won't last forever.
Golfnever permits anyone to get too comfortable or too cocky.
Thelatest reminder of this came when Woods hit his plateau, postingmerely reasonable success after an astonishing pro debut.What Duval has done is tantalize us with the possibilities ofreturning golf to its heyday a stage for two heavyweights toseparate themselves from the PGA Tour masses on a regular basis andclearly divide the galleries.
Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus didthis.
So did Byron Nelson and Ben Hogan.
Match play.The '80s had no such arrangement, nor have the '90s so far,forcing golf followers to settle for man against the game, thecourse or the elements.
Which is not nearly as much fun.Woods, 23, and Duval have the shots to get this done and slipaway from the rest of golf's enormously talented 20-somethingplayers, a group that includes Justin Leonard, Ernie Els, PhilMickelson and Jim Furyk.
Since last year's U.S. Open, Woods andDuval have played in 14 tournaments together.
Head to head, theyare 7-7.
In majors, they are 2-2.
In 13{ events together (Duvalmissed one cut), four strokes separate them, in Duval's favor.Woods carries an edge in length, averaging seven more yards perdrive (295.6) than Duval in 1998.
Yet Duval leads the tour inputting (1.705 per hole) and birdies (4.61 per round) this season.With the exception of a green jacket and he had an arm in onesleeve last April before finishing second to Mark O'Meara Duvalhas done it all.
He just hasn't let you know it.
There have been noleg-splitting, fist-pumping gyrations, no commercials, few magazinecovers.Duval chooses to go about his work without the sideshow.
Thisseems to satisfy him.
This seems to be his only drawback in thepublic's mind.
But that's OK. Nicklaus, when initially compared tothe swash-buckling Palmer, was said to be about as dull as watchinga fairway being mowed.
Duval suffers from a similar perception.Woods had his normal circus-like following Tuesday during amorning practice round at Olympic, while Duval had far fewer fanswatching him prepare.
It's human nature.Some players remain just as adamant as the fans over the game'stop player.
Five recent wins make no difference to them either.Woods' smugness and confidence seem to greatly overshadow theworkmanlike Duval.
And it starts at home.Maybe Duval was effectively humbled before he could think ofgetting a big head.
A four-time All-American at Georgia Tech and1993 college player of the year, he failed to earn his tour cardand spent the '93 and '94 seasons on the Nike Tour.
Once on the bigtour, he suffered through the indignation of several near-misses,finishing as a tournament runner-up seven times before hisbreakthrough.Duval keeps himself well grounded.
While Woods bounces fromrestaurant openings to photo shoots away from the course, theFloridian goes skiing or surfing off the beaten track.
He arrivedat the Open after a week of fishing in Montana.
He'll leave theglitz for Woods, but he remains competitive.Two weeks ago in Ohio, Duval looked out at a crowded room ofreporters and kidded that they must have been expecting Tiger.Then, as if acknowledging his newly acquired star status, he hadanother observation.TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say itis due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy.
InJapan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out ofJapan.With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and manydepositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for theirmoney, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to lookabroad.
When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would beginto weaken.Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just theinterest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over10 percent per annum for the past five years.What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but theabsence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that theeconomy would not recover quickly.Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recoverywere the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of therules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, whatwe see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchangemarkets work.Similarly with the economy generally.
It has long been obviousthat no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse ofthe grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubbleeconomy of the early '90s.Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chancethat it would spiral.
Even interest rates at close to zero wouldnot stop the rot.The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister andKeynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992.
But, as he saidon a recent television program, his proposal then for thegovernment to step in decisively to rescue bank loans alreadyturning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided onevery side, and by the business community especially.In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late lastyear to introduce an item that had long been high on the FinanceMinistry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscalrestraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscalexpansion.Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity andcurrent pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up asextra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan'sdemand-starved economy.Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stoplistening to these experts.
Firm action to expand governmentspending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.These moves may be in time to rescue the economy.
But thingswould have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, ifthey had come in 1992.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.)
(To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the InternationalHerald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITEin Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
SAN FRANCISCO Aching back and all, Fred Couples on Tuesdaysaid he likes his chances to win the 98th U.S. Open.
In his bag, hecarries course familiarity.
He might be 800 miles from hisbirthplace, but he feels at home at The Olympic Club.The 38-year-old golfer, still fighting the back stiffness thathas plagued him much of the past four years, spent long sessions onthe driving range before and after a five-hour practice round.
Hewas all business, rifling iron shot after iron shot toward theocean.Yet Couples paused long enough to ponder an August return toSeattle for the PGA Championship, the likely discontinuation of hishometown charity tournament after three years and life after hisfather's death.Couples expects his PGA appearance at Sahalee Country Club to behighly emotional, one marking his first competitive appearancebefore friends and relatives.
Tenative plans have him arrivingearly for the major tournament and playing a few extra rounds inRedmond, then staying over and relaxing with those closest to him.Couples is counting on future playing trips to his old haunts aswell, with the new TPC Course at Snoqualmie Ridge expected toattract a PGA Tour stop as early as next year.Couples, his hair graying around the edges, said he has found aninner peace which comes from moving on from personal tragedy andplaying well again.
His father, Tom, died from cancer last year.Couples enters the Open coming off a win at The Memorial twoweeks ago, his second of the season.
He has runner-up finishes atthe Masters and Byron Nelson, two events that easily could havebeen victories.He sees a score close to par winning at The Olympic Club.
Hesees a guy hanging tough in the tortuous conditions pulling out ahard-earned victory.
He sees himself.TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say itis due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy.
InJapan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out ofJapan.With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and manydepositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for theirmoney, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to lookabroad.
When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would beginto weaken.Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just theinterest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over10 percent per annum for the past five years.What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but theabsence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that theeconomy would not recover quickly.Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recoverywere the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of therules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, whatwe see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchangemarkets work.Similarly with the economy generally.
It has long been obviousthat no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse ofthe grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubbleeconomy of the early '90s.Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chancethat it would spiral.
Even interest rates at close to zero wouldnot stop the rot.The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister andKeynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992.
But, as he saidon a recent television program, his proposal then for thegovernment to step in decisively to rescue bank loans alreadyturning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided onevery side, and by the business community especially.In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late lastyear to introduce an item that had long been high on the FinanceMinistry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscalrestraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscalexpansion.Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity andcurrent pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up asextra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan'sdemand-starved economy.Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stoplistening to these experts.
Firm action to expand governmentspending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.These moves may be in time to rescue the economy.
But thingswould have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, ifthey had come in 1992.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.)
(To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the InternationalHerald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITEin Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
TOKYO As the yen continues to fall, experts worldwide say itis due to severe loss of confidence in the Japanese economy.
InJapan, the experts say it is Nippon uri, or the selling out ofJapan.With the official discount rate stuck at 0.5 percent, and manydepositors in Japan getting less than 1 percent interest for theirmoney, it was inevitable that they would eventually begin to lookabroad.
When they did, it was inevitable that the yen would beginto weaken.Anyone who keeps his money in yen is losing not just theinterest spread but also the exchange gains, a total of well over10 percent per annum for the past five years.What is surprising is not the yen collapse we see today but theabsence of collapse years ago when it was already clear that theeconomy would not recover quickly.Timidity, misguided patriotism and optimism for early recoverywere the main reasons why most Japanese kept their money in Japan.It has taken the best part of five years, and some easing of therules on sending money abroad, for depositors to get smart.Rather than loss of confidence or the selling out of Japan, whatwe see now is a belated understanding of how foreign exchangemarkets work.Similarly with the economy generally.
It has long been obviousthat no economy, not even Japan's, could stand a sudden collapse ofthe grossly inflated asset values built up during Japan's bubbleeconomy of the early '90s.Worse, once the collapse got under way there was every chancethat it would spiral.
Even interest rates at close to zero wouldnot stop the rot.The one person to realize this was the then-prime minister andKeynesian economist Kiichi Miyazawa, back in 1992.
But, as he saidon a recent television program, his proposal then for thegovernment to step in decisively to rescue bank loans alreadyturning sour because of collapsing asset values was derided onevery side, and by the business community especially.In particular, we had the unbelievably foolish attempt late lastyear to introduce an item that had long been high on the FinanceMinistry agenda, namely, a long-term program of severe fiscalrestraint at precisely the moment when the economy needed fiscalexpansion.Meanwhile, U.S. experts were urging their favorite agenda item,massive tax cuts in a nation where high savings propensity andcurrent pessimism guarantee that such cuts will simply end up asextra savings, which is the last thing needed by Japan'sdemand-starved economy.Fortunately, the politicians have at last begun to stoplistening to these experts.
Firm action to expand governmentspending and rescue the banking system is at last being promised.These moves may be in time to rescue the economy.
But thingswould have been much better, for Japan and the rest of Asia, ifthey had come in 1992.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Gregory Clark, a former Australian diplomat,contributed this commentary to the International Herald Tribune.)
(To publish this timely 600-word commentary from the InternationalHerald Tribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITEin Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
WASHINGTON Just like the advent of the first millennium, theapproach of the year 2000 is bringing dire predictions of disaster.Doomsayers are warning of aircraft falling from the sky, riots,famine, martial law and stock market crashes.This time, however, the warnings are based not on superstitionbut on hardheaded analyses of the potentially devastating effectsof the so-called millennium bug the inability of computers torecognize the year 2000 because past programmers used only twodigits to denote years, without identifying the century.A few scattered optimists still argue that the problem has beengrossly exaggerated, and it is true that some of the worst-casescenarios are overly hysterical.
But most experts insist that it isnow too late to avoid serious disruptions.Several hundred professionals surveyed by the Washington D.C.Year 2000 Group rated the impact of the problem on the UnitedStates at an average of just under five on a scale of zero to 10 with 10 representing the collapse of the U.S. government andpossible famine.A rating of five signified mild recession, isolated food, fueland power shortages, disruption of transport services such astrucking and air travel and runs on banks.
Some people, however,fear it will be much worse.Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell,told a recent conference organized by the Center for Strategic andInternational Studies in Washington that there was a 60 percentchance of a severe global recession and that Wall Street could fallby 30 percent next year.Much will depend on how far governments and private businessessucceed in defusing the time bomb over the next 18 months.
Nobody,however, believes that all the errors will be corrected not evenin the United States, which leads the world in tackling theproblem.Most other countries are far behind.
Instead of giving priorityto the millennium bug, Asia is largely focusing on resolving itsfinancial crisis and Europe on introducing its single currency, theeuro.
Many developing countries are hardly aware of the danger.Even companies and government departments that think they havemade the necessary technical adjustments will be vulnerable todisruptions if their suppliers and other contacts have failed to doso.One does not have to believe the most extreme scenarios to takethe sensible precautions most experts now recommend.
Businesses,for instance, should assign top managers, not just technicalexperts, to the problem, draw up contingency plans for coping withsystems failures and postpone complicated operations likeaccounting changes.Much of the same applies to governments, which have the addedresponsibility for heading off military disasters, such as might becaused, for example, by false warnings of nuclear missile attacks.Above all, political leaders urgently need to explain the risksand activate coordinated responses.
In the United States, there iswidespread amazement at the silence of Vice President Al Gore, theadministration's top computer geek, whose bid for the presidency inthe 2000 elections could be at stake.There is no need to take to the hills, as some survivalists areurging.
But the Central Intelligence Agency is advising itsemployees to pay their bills early in December 1999, keep cash onhand and lay in extra blankets.And many people, whether they are superstitious or not, probablywon't want to be in a plane as the millennium dawns.
(To publish this 650-word article from the International HeraldTribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive fromNew York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE inKansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
WASHINGTON Just like the advent of the first millennium, theapproach of the year 2000 is bringing dire predictions of disaster.Doomsayers are warning of aircraft falling from the sky, riots,famine, martial law and stock market crashes.This time, however, the warnings are based not on superstitionbut on hardheaded analyses of the potentially devastating effectsof the so-called millennium bug the inability of computers torecognize the year 2000 because past programmers used only twodigits to denote years, without identifying the century.A few scattered optimists still argue that the problem has beengrossly exaggerated, and it is true that some of the worst-casescenarios are overly hysterical.
But most experts insist that it isnow too late to avoid serious disruptions.Several hundred professionals surveyed by the Washington D.C.Year 2000 Group rated the impact of the problem on the UnitedStates at an average of just under five on a scale of zero to 10 with 10 representing the collapse of the U.S. government andpossible famine.A rating of five signified mild recession, isolated food, fueland power shortages, disruption of transport services such astrucking and air travel and runs on banks.
Some people, however,fear it will be much worse.Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell,told a recent conference organized by the Center for Strategic andInternational Studies in Washington that there was a 60 percentchance of a severe global recession and that Wall Street could fallby 30 percent next year.Much will depend on how far governments and private businessessucceed in defusing the time bomb over the next 18 months.
Nobody,however, believes that all the errors will be corrected not evenin the United States, which leads the world in tackling theproblem.Most other countries are far behind.
Instead of giving priorityto the millennium bug, Asia is largely focusing on resolving itsfinancial crisis and Europe on introducing its single currency, theeuro.
Many developing countries are hardly aware of the danger.Even companies and government departments that think they havemade the necessary technical adjustments will be vulnerable todisruptions if their suppliers and other contacts have failed to doso.One does not have to believe the most extreme scenarios to takethe sensible precautions most experts now recommend.
Businesses,for instance, should assign top managers, not just technicalexperts, to the problem, draw up contingency plans for coping withsystems failures and postpone complicated operations likeaccounting changes.Much of the same applies to governments, which have the addedresponsibility for heading off military disasters, such as might becaused, for example, by false warnings of nuclear missile attacks.Above all, political leaders urgently need to explain the risksand activate coordinated responses.
In the United States, there iswidespread amazement at the silence of Vice President Al Gore, theadministration's top computer geek, whose bid for the presidency inthe 2000 elections could be at stake.There is no need to take to the hills, as some survivalists areurging.
But the Central Intelligence Agency is advising itsemployees to pay their bills early in December 1999, keep cash onhand and lay in extra blankets.And many people, whether they are superstitious or not, probablywon't want to be in a plane as the millennium dawns.
(To publish this 650-word article from the International HeraldTribune, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive fromNew York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE inKansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at816-822-1444.)
The phrase referred to middle-class housewives, characterized assoccer moms, who often drove their kids to soccer games orpractices.It was coined against the background of the growing popularityof soccer in the United States in this particular demographicsegment two years after the country played host to the World Cup in1994.Four years later, as the U.S. team competes in the World Cup inFrance, soccer commentators and the media are once again discussingthe same old subject: Is soccer taking hold in the United States?Some observers say, however, that soccer as a spectator sporthas yet to take root in American society, although it has takenhold in schools and colleges, and Hispanic immigrantsenthusiastically follow the game.Some say that soccer does not appeal to the psyche of Americansas much as basketball because of few goals and no breaks.According to the Soccer Industry Council of America, a committeeof the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, 18 millionAmericans played soccer at least once in 1997, unchanged from the1995 figure.
In 1993, the number was 16.4 million.While soccer has not reached the status of basketball andbaseball, the American Soccer Federation is embarking on a newproject that looks ahead to 2010.According to the project, about $50 million will be spent forsoccer development during the next 12 years.
The federation willexpand on its current program called Project 40, in which teenagersleave college soccer to join professional teams in exchange forroom, board and scholarship.The federation intends to have up to 120 youth players in itsprofessional development program by 2009, according to Remedi.How far the project will succeed remains to be seen, and thefuture of soccer as a spectator sport is anyone's guess.But John Williams, a sociologist at the University of Leicester,doubts that soccer will ever become a major sport in the UnitedStates.Duncan Sisson, 18, from New York, who watched the U.S. nationalteam beaten by Germany 2-0 on June 15 at the Paris stadium, said heprefers soccer to other games like baseball and basketball.The phrase referred to middle-class housewives, characterized assoccer moms, who often drove their kids to soccer games orpractices.It was coined against the background of the growing popularityof soccer in the United States in this particular demographicsegment two years after the country played host to the World Cup in1994.Four years later, as the U.S. team competes in the World Cup inFrance, soccer commentators and the media are once again discussingthe same old subject: Is soccer taking hold in the United States?Some observers say, however, that soccer as a spectator sporthas yet to take root in American society, although it has takenhold in schools and colleges, and Hispanic immigrantsenthusiastically follow the game.Some say that soccer does not appeal to the psyche of Americansas much as basketball because of few goals and no breaks.According to the Soccer Industry Council of America, a committeeof the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, 18 millionAmericans played soccer at least once in 1997, unchanged from the1995 figure.
In 1993, the number was 16.4 million.While soccer has not reached the status of basketball andbaseball, the American Soccer Federation is embarking on a newproject that looks ahead to 2010.According to the project, about $50 million will be spent forsoccer development during the next 12 years.
The federation willexpand on its current program called Project 40, in which teenagersleave college soccer to join professional teams in exchange forroom, board and scholarship.The federation intends to have up to 120 youth players in itsprofessional development program by 2009, according to Remedi.How far the project will succeed remains to be seen, and thefuture of soccer as a spectator sport is anyone's guess.But John Williams, a sociologist at the University of Leicester,doubts that soccer will ever become a major sport in the UnitedStates.Duncan Sisson, 18, from New York, who watched the U.S. nationalteam beaten by Germany 2-0 on June 15 at the Paris stadium, said heprefers soccer to other games like baseball and basketball.The quintet that saw its first-half champion finish just twogames over .500 refused to bow down to a Valley Division thatclaimed four of five teams completing the halfway mark with atleast a .500 record, including first-place San Jose's 46-24 mark.The Freeway took a major detour in the fifth inning, however,and the favored Valley Division took command, scoring five times towin the game 9-4.With his team leading 3-2, Freeway Division pitcher Brent Iddonof the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes was the victim of both timely Valleyhitting and shoddy defense by his teammates.The carnage began with singles by Michael Byas and Jeff DaVanon.With Byas at third, right fielder Luke Allen misjudged JoshKlimek's fly ball for a three-base error and the go-ahead runs.Iddon recorded one out but yielded a smash off theright-center-field fence by Modesto's Cody McKay for a triple.
WhenAllen bobbled the ball for his second error of the inning, the A'scatcher chugged around third and scored to make it 6-3.The circus atmosphere didn't stop there after Rod Barajasdoubled and moved to third on a groundout.
With Visalia's MikeHolmes in for Iddon, JetHawk Adonis Harrison's grounder to theright side was booted by second baseman Dionys Cesar of Visalia.San Jose's Juan Dilone, a 25-year-old veteran of sevenminor-league seasons, was the unanimous choice as the game's mostvaluable player after going for 3 for 4 with a home run and threeRBI.JetHawks right-hander Brian Sweeney struck out the sidesandwiched between a walk in his one inning to earn the pitchingvictory.The Freeway Division started quickly when San Bernardino's RichSaitta hit the 1-2 pitch of San Jose's Jason Grote over theright-center-field fence for a home run leading off the game.Twice the Valley Division tied the score but fell behind a run,the last time in the top of the fifth when JetHawks ace PatrickDunham allowed the go-ahead run on Luke Allen's RBI single.This All-Star game meant as much to Visalia's Duane Filchnerthan perhaps to any of the remaining 43 players.
The 25-year-old,in his fourth season with the Oakland A's organization, retiredfollowing the game in favor of a position in the athleticdepartment at Radford University.Filchner participated in the pregame home run contest andthrilled the crowd by going deep 12 times in the opening round.Filchner, who singled in three at-bats as the starting designatedhitter, reached the finals against Modesto's McKay.
After each hitone home run, McKay defeated his Oakland teammate with a homer overthe fence in right in a one-pitch tiebreaker.
Combining the threerounds, Filchner actually outhomered McKay 19-18.Tuesday's 10-6 loss to the San Diego Padres at Qual Comm Stadiumdropped them 10{ games back in the National League West, thelargest deficit they have faced in almost five years.Those kinds of numbers are numbing for a team that wasoverhauled a month ago in hopes of bringing it back to life.
So farit hasn't happened.
What is next?
Firing Bill Russell?
BenchingBobby Bonilla?They knew coming to San Diego they were facing the hottest teamin baseball.
The Padres (45-25) now have eight consecutivevictories and reclaimed the National League West lead by sweepingSan Francisco over the weekend.The Dodgers, who appeared to have passed the .500 mark for goodFriday, have dropped three in a row and are 34-35.It is bad enough that Ramon Martinez could be facingseason-ending surgery after reinjuring his right shoulder onSunday.
It didn't help that Chan Ho Park failed to step intoMartinez's role as the staff ace.Park (5-4) gave up a two-run double to Tony Gwynn in the thirdinning that tied the game 2-2.
It was Gwynn's first start in a weeksince straining his left calf.With the game tied 3-3 in the sixth, Park allowed a two-runhomer to Ken Caminiti.
Although the Dodgers scored three runs inthe ninth, they never recovered from Caminiti's home run.The Dodgers even spotted him a 2-0 lead on home runs by GarySheffield and Raul Mondesi on a rare night when Padres right-handerKevin Brown (7-3) did not have his best stuff.The Padres appeared to blow open the game in the seventh whenformer Dodger Carlos Hernandez lined a three-run double into theleft-field corner against Mark Guthrie, who replaced Park after sixinnings.Guthrie allowed a fourth run and all of them were unearned.
Withone out, Greg Vaughn grounded to short, but Eric Young did nottouch the bag as he tried to complete a double play.Second-base umpire Jim Quick ruled the base runner, Caminiti,was safe.
When Hernandez doubled it just seemed like piling on.
Itturned out to be a critical play.Before the game, the Dodgers held a players-only meeting withhopes of regaining some of the fire lost in back-to-back losses toColorado on Saturday and Sunday.The Dodgers rallied for three runs in the ninth inning againstright-hander Brian Boehringer.
Jose Vizcaino singled home two runsand Sheffield followed with an RBI double.
But Trevor Hoffman cameon to get the final out for his 21st save in 21 opportunities, theonly closer in the majors who is perfect this season.Sheffield continue his hot hitting since joining the club in thebig trade with the Florida Marlins.
With three more hits he isbatting .352 (35 for 96) since joining the club.But Bonilla continues to struggle since his first weekend withthe club.
Tuesday, Bonilla went 0 for 4, including an inning-endingdouble play in the eighth after the first two batters reached base.Sonic president Wally Walker has settled on Westphal to becomethe team's next head coach, the Post-Intelligencer has learned.
Asource within the organization and another close to the situationsaid Walker would name Westphal to replace Karl before the weekend.Both sources said the announcement could come as soon asWednesday afternoon.
A news conference will certainly take place byFriday.Westphal beat out finalists Bob Hill, Charlotte assistant PaulSilas and former Sonic assistant Bob Weiss.
The Sonics waited untilafter the NBA Finals so they could speak with Chicago's PhilJackson.
Walker, though, lost interest in Jackson on Monday afterlearning the Bulls coach wanted more time to decide his future.Westphal has been Walker's choice all along, and Westphal'smeeting with All-Star point guard Gary Payton on Monday cinched thedeal.Over lunch in Oakland, Calif., Payton's hometown, they discussedcoaching philosophy and Westphal's ideas about how to run the team.Payton left satisfied, and that is all Walker needed to hear.Walker recommended Westphal to team owner Barry Ackerley, who wasimpressed by the new coach in a meeting several weeks ago.Now, Walker needs only to finalize details.
He and Westphal areclose to agreement on a two- or three-year deal worth between $1million and $1.5 million each season.When Westphal is introduced, his task instantly becomes adaunting one.
Westphal, 47, has to at least match Karl's success.Karl was essentially fired in technical terms, they allowed hiscontract to expire and did not offer a new one despite thecoach's outstanding regular-season record: .719 winning percentageand an average of 55 victories the past six seasons.
But Walkersaid the decision to release Karl was because he could no longertrust the coach on sensitive matters.Conversely, Walker and Westphal have remained friends since bothplayed for the Sonics during the 1980-81 season.
Walker also issold on Westphal's past success with the Phoenix Suns and hisreputation as a player's coach.
It helps that Westphal is known tobe very discreet and conservative just like Walker.Walker is entering the final season of his five-year deal aspresident of the Sonics.
It makes sense that, given the chance,Walker would want to have a coach that is a more comfortable fitwith himself.Sources in Phoenix said that Westphal has not coached since 1996for one simple reason: He has been waiting for the opportunity tocoach a good team.
With Payton and Vin Baker already on hand andthe ability to add a big player in the free-agent market, theSonics are poised to again be a contender for the WesternConference crown.After spending four years as an assistant coach in Phoenix,Westphal took over the Suns and led them to the 1993 NBA Finals.Phoenix lost the title to the Bulls, but won 62 games that year.Westphal won 56 and 59 games the next two seasons.An injury-plagued season amid high expectations did in Westpahl.Phoenix was 14-19 when the Suns fired him.
Westphal, though, isgetting a second chance because of his association with Walker andhis established record.
He also is a good communicator who canbalance relationships with management and players.Westphal's system will cater to Payton with uptempo offensivesets.
Westphal will occasionally trap and double-team on defense unlike Karl, whose constant double teams hurt the Sonics in theplayoffs.Ultimately, without a shot at Jackson, Walker saw Westphal asthe best choice.
Hill blew his chances by publicly campaigning forthe job.
Silas and Weiss, both former Sonic players, wereconsidered risks because of unsuccessful stints as head coaches.The Sonics felt they had to replace a proven winner with aproven winner, which is why they will name Westphal as their nexthead coach.The surprise isn't that Tiger Woods was walking around theOlympic Club during a U.S. Open practice round Tuesday with fouruniformed police officers.
The surprise was that he couldn't walkaround without them.People need to get close, to feel the flames.
They need anautograph or a glance or a brush of a sleeve.
They need him to makethem a memory or maybe some cash.Woods is beyond golf, into another realm.
Movie stars stayhidden behind locked gates or tinted glass, emerging only invirtual form.
Woods is out there, among the people.
With mostgolfers, being among the people is a treat.
For Woods, it's anoccupational hazard.Everyone says Woods' charisma and race have transformed golfinto something more accessible to the people, but that's just thestart of it.
Perhaps his most impressive act has been turning golfinto a contact sport.San Francisco police officer Rich McNaughton drew Tiger dutyTuesday, and you would think the assignment would be a chance foran officer to take a break from mediating man's more heinousendeavors.
Instead, he got to see a moving cluster of humanweakness.For Woods, there is the occasional death threat, which he shrugsoff as would any world-famous 22-year-old.
There are kids workingfor collectors and collectors working for themselves.
In the middleof it, there are also kids just trying to catch a glimpse of him,just to say they did.It's also hard to imagine what could compel grown men to firetheir bodies into a crowd, through children, in search of a namewritten on a piece of paper, but it takes all kinds.The police are with him all the way, every week.
Without them,he would be swallowed up, submerged inside a great clump ofhumanity and carried away to a secret location filled with nothingbut felt pens and 8x10 glossies.In reality, Woods is the main story.
He always is.
Everytournament, every round, every hole, nobody in golf is watched moreclosely.
To the people who tune in only for the majors, Woods isthe show.
Every golfer and every spectator is aware of hispresence, even if he does come to the Olympic Club as a prohibitiveunderdog.The official dossier on Woods indicates a style that is notsuitable to winning a U.S. Open.
His swashbuckling play isapparently at odds with the calculated shot-making needed to excelon a mind-numbing course such as Olympic.As Jack Nicklaus suggested Tuesday, maybe Woods doesn't yetdeserve to be showered with expectations.
Maybe it's not his turn.Still, it sounds strange to hear that Woods' ability to hit theball a long way is actually a disadvantage.
Woods doesn'tunderstand this, either; he seems to find it logical to assume thatif a man can hit the ball a long, long way off the tee, he probablycan throttle it down through club choice and etc.
and manage tohit it a little shorter.Besides, although the course is the shortest U.S. Open course,we're not talking about windmills and alligators.Everyone else might be right.
The circumstances might favor thepatient plodding of Mark O'Meara or Tom Lehman, but who would yourather watch?
Woods might finish 11th, but he'll be easy to find.Just look for the group of grown men using 6-year-olds as ladders.McCurry used the occasion to voice the administration'sstrongest protest to date over the stalled nomination of SanFrancisco philanthropist James Hormel as ambassador to Luxembourg.The nomination to the relatively inconsequential post is emergingas a high-profile battleground over gay rights.The comments came a day after Lott told an interviewer that hebelieves engaging in gay sex is a sin and a problem to be solved.The comments were made as part of a taped interview conducted byconservative talk-show host Armstrong Williams for the America'sVoice network.
The Hormel nomination was not mentioned.Lott declined to personally respond to McCurry's statement or todiscuss whether he is holding up Hormel's nomination because of hisreligious convictions.Critics said Lott's comments reflect the growing influencewithin the Congress and the Republican Party of sociallyconservative groups such as Gary Bauer's Family Research Counciland James Dobson's Focus on the Family.In her letter, Birch noted that the American PsychiatricAssociation removed homosexuality from its list of mental disordersin 1973.Although Lott did not discuss Hormel in the interview, thoseworking to secure his confirmation viewed the comments as a badsign.
Hormel, heir to a meat-packing fortune and a regularDemocratic Party contributor, was nominated by Clinton last year toserve as ambassador to Luxembourg.The nomination was approved by the Senate Foreign RelationsCommittee.
But a small group of Republicans complained aboutHormel's support for gay causes and have prevented the matter fromreaching the floor for a vote.The senator said she hopes that Lott's attitude towardhomosexuality will not affect his decision on Hormel.Wellstone has pledged to use parliamentary maneuvers to try toforce a vote on Hormel as soon as the Senate completes work on thetobacco legislation.The 49-to-48 vote was a crushing blow to trial attorneys.
Bysome estimates, a handful of law firms involved in tobaccolitigation had stood to win a staggering $100 billion in legal feesover 25 years.The attorneys were expecting to collect contingency fees rangingfrom 3 to 30 percent of the settlement.
They argued that they areentitled to such a mammoth payout because they were willing to takeon the tobacco industry years ago when no one else would, and wouldhave received nothing had they lost.New York University law professor Lester Brickman calculatedthat without the fee cap, the tobacco legislation would have madebillionaires out of 10 lawyers and hundred-millionaires out of 50more.Previous efforts to limit legal fees, first to $250 an hour, andthen to $1,000 an hour, were roundly defeated.
The highest-paidlawyers in Washington charge roughly $500 an hour.The roll-call vote was prolonged by last-minute arm-twisting,and the fee cap passed only when Gordon Smith, R-Ore., changed hisvote to yes.The $516 billion tobacco bill, sponsored by Sen. John McCain,R-Ariz., would raise cigarette taxes by $1.10 a pack, regulatetobacco marketing and set up a host of new programs coveringeverything from illegal drugs to child care.The bill would also settle 40 state claims against the tobaccocompanies to recoup Medicaid costs for smoking-related illnesses.State attorneys general had hired private attorneys to help themwith the litigation.
The attorneys agreed to work on acontingency-fee basis, as is common in large cases, but that wasbefore anyone knew the settlement would reach into the financialstratosphere.Some law firms were involved in several of the state suits,standing to collect fees in each one.
Six of the 12 law firmsinvolved in Florida's $11 billion settlement have been disputing adeal that would provide $280 million in legal fees.
The six firmsinstead want $2.5 billion, or the 25 percent contingency feeoriginally agreed on.Trial lawyers are among the top donors to the Democratic Partyand one of the most powerful lobbies in Washington.
They give lessmoney to Republicans because of the GOP's support for limits onproduct liability, but nonetheless count many Republicans amongtheir key supporters.Democrats argued that the attorney fee limits were a subterfugeintended to kill the tobacco bill, which aims to reduce teensmoking by increasing the price of cigarettes.The original tobacco bill would pay tobacco farmers $28 billionover 25 years if they relinquish their right to grow tobacco.
Itwould leave the quota system intact.Indiana Republican Richard Lugar, who has led the drive to endfarm subsidies, pushed an alternative that would pay the farmers$18 billion over three years and eliminate the quotas.Under both proposals, most of the money would go to roughly124,000 farmers; if they receive $28 billion, that averages some$200,000 per farmer.Farmers are split on the two alternatives; some support theLugar provision because it would allow them to continue growingtobacco.
Prices would fall, but so would costs.
Others want theoption of keeping the quotas to maintain high prices if they decidenot to relinquish their quotas.Boyd defended payments to nonfarmers who own quotas, arguingthat many are widows who lease their quotas to survive.The outcome of the tobacco bill remains murky after a month ofcontentious debate.
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott called for aclosed-door meeting of rank and file Republicans Wednesday todetermine strategy.Key Republicans continue to oppose the legislation because itconstitutes a huge tax increase and creates many new federalprograms.
But GOP ranks broke when amendments were approved to cuttaxes for married couples and increase health insurance taxdeductions for the self-employed.
If the bill clears the Senate, itfaces stiff opposition in the House, which also could makesubstantial changes.The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes andmuffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined hisvision of the future.That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from thecrops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offeringgenetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into theirchromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weedkillers.Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeansand a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by abacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were plantedin the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eatinginsects.Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological andevolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters.
Perhapsthe plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboringfarmer's fields.Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them sohardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert intotransgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape intosoil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism?
The onlyway to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to runexperiments.Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting upexperiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins canescape the crops they were meant to help.
The results thus far areproving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.But the researchers are split over whether the results should because for anxiety.
Much of the concern over transgenic crops stemsfrom the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids thatcan reproduce.In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the Universityof California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of thisgenetic escape.One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance genegetting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over afield.Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops andweeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establishthemselves in the wild population.Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, couldreadily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghumhalepense.These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as thejohnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's RisoNational Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered cropcalled oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and inLatin as Brassica napus.
Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross betweena weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassicaoleracea, the cabbage plant.Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered tosurvive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (andweedy neighbor) B. campestris.Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed thehybrids together with the original weed, a second generation ofseeds was produced.
These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out tobe impervious to Basta as well.Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring anddiscovered that this second generation had produced offspring oftheir own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rapealongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,still be manageable.
As one researcher said, you can always destroythe plants with another herbicide.The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need forspraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with theenvironmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actuallycomfortable with that prospect because they can make transgeniccrops as well as herbicides.Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possibleeffects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but betweenweeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,since weed killers are found only on farms.
Of far more pressingconcern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance toinsects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic cropsinto wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape mightbe to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relativesalready exist in a given place.The United States could similarly allow transgenic maizesoybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wildrelatives with which they are sexually compatible here.
On theother hand, squashes and sunflowers do.There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however.
Adesperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic cropthat can breed with local weeds.And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change thattransgenic crops can bring.
Researchers have been developing atransgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids thatfeed on it.
The new potato produces a protein called lectin thatruins the aphids' digestion.Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato canreduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half.
That'simpressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes tosurvive on their own.
To fully protect their crop, farmers wouldneed to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop ResearchInstitute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makesladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can haveharmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn'tthink his results are cause for alarm.
If ladybugs can also findaphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, theplant's harmful effects will be diluted.In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of theirpotential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful inreducing our dependence on pesticides.The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes andmuffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined hisvision of the future.That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from thecrops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offeringgenetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into theirchromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weedkillers.Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeansand a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by abacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were plantedin the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eatinginsects.Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological andevolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters.
Perhapsthe plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboringfarmer's fields.Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them sohardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert intotransgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape intosoil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism?
The onlyway to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to runexperiments.Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting upexperiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins canescape the crops they were meant to help.
The results thus far areproving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.But the researchers are split over whether the results should because for anxiety.
Much of the concern over transgenic crops stemsfrom the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids thatcan reproduce.In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the Universityof California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of thisgenetic escape.One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance genegetting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over afield.Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops andweeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establishthemselves in the wild population.Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, couldreadily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghumhalepense.These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as thejohnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's RisoNational Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered cropcalled oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and inLatin as Brassica napus.
Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross betweena weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassicaoleracea, the cabbage plant.Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered tosurvive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (andweedy neighbor) B. campestris.Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed thehybrids together with the original weed, a second generation ofseeds was produced.
These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out tobe impervious to Basta as well.Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring anddiscovered that this second generation had produced offspring oftheir own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rapealongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,still be manageable.
As one researcher said, you can always destroythe plants with another herbicide.The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need forspraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with theenvironmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actuallycomfortable with that prospect because they can make transgeniccrops as well as herbicides.Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possibleeffects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but betweenweeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,since weed killers are found only on farms.
Of far more pressingconcern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance toinsects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic cropsinto wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape mightbe to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relativesalready exist in a given place.The United States could similarly allow transgenic maizesoybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wildrelatives with which they are sexually compatible here.
On theother hand, squashes and sunflowers do.There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however.
Adesperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic cropthat can breed with local weeds.And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change thattransgenic crops can bring.
Researchers have been developing atransgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids thatfeed on it.
The new potato produces a protein called lectin thatruins the aphids' digestion.Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato canreduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half.
That'simpressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes tosurvive on their own.
To fully protect their crop, farmers wouldneed to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop ResearchInstitute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makesladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can haveharmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn'tthink his results are cause for alarm.
If ladybugs can also findaphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, theplant's harmful effects will be diluted.In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of theirpotential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful inreducing our dependence on pesticides.As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth'sgravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its largesolar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwesternsky.Fail to spot NEAR?
Don't despair.
While there won't be any moreinterplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew ofother manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be aroundafter August.
But they're here now during satellite season, whenEarth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunwardextreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in fullsunlight even an hour after sunset.More often they're used by the military to spy on us even aswe try to spy them.Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are largeenough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 milesup) to catch our eye.Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.How do you know you've spotted a satellite?
Elementary, my dearWestar.
If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that movesin a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes ratherthan seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or asatellite.Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.That's because they're usually launched in the same generaldirection as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free1,000-miles-per-hour boost.Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward orsouthward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a feworbits.Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellitesstationed 22,300 miles up.
Orbits at that distance aregeosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earthand so appear motionless.
Don't even think of finding them; theyare a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelesslyinvisible.Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off ifthey're tumbling.
And if they're tumbling and most do they'reno longer functioning.The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, andthe awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discardedthird-stage booster that went with it into orbit.Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around.
Afteronly a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes andmuffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined hisvision of the future.That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from thecrops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offeringgenetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into theirchromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weedkillers.Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeansand a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by abacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were plantedin the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eatinginsects.Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological andevolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters.
Perhapsthe plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboringfarmer's fields.Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them sohardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert intotransgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape intosoil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism?
The onlyway to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to runexperiments.Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting upexperiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins canescape the crops they were meant to help.
The results thus far areproving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.But the researchers are split over whether the results should because for anxiety.
Much of the concern over transgenic crops stemsfrom the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids thatcan reproduce.In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the Universityof California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of thisgenetic escape.One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance genegetting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over afield.Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops andweeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establishthemselves in the wild population.Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, couldreadily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghumhalepense.These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as thejohnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's RisoNational Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered cropcalled oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and inLatin as Brassica napus.
Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross betweena weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassicaoleracea, the cabbage plant.Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered tosurvive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (andweedy neighbor) B. campestris.Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed thehybrids together with the original weed, a second generation ofseeds was produced.
These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out tobe impervious to Basta as well.Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring anddiscovered that this second generation had produced offspring oftheir own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rapealongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,still be manageable.
As one researcher said, you can always destroythe plants with another herbicide.The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need forspraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with theenvironmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actuallycomfortable with that prospect because they can make transgeniccrops as well as herbicides.Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possibleeffects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but betweenweeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,since weed killers are found only on farms.
Of far more pressingconcern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance toinsects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic cropsinto wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape mightbe to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relativesalready exist in a given place.The United States could similarly allow transgenic maizesoybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wildrelatives with which they are sexually compatible here.
On theother hand, squashes and sunflowers do.There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however.
Adesperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic cropthat can breed with local weeds.And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change thattransgenic crops can bring.
Researchers have been developing atransgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids thatfeed on it.
The new potato produces a protein called lectin thatruins the aphids' digestion.Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato canreduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half.
That'simpressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes tosurvive on their own.
To fully protect their crop, farmers wouldneed to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop ResearchInstitute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makesladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can haveharmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn'tthink his results are cause for alarm.
If ladybugs can also findaphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, theplant's harmful effects will be diluted.In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of theirpotential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful inreducing our dependence on pesticides.The three officials and a group of journalists ate pancakes andmuffins as Pioneer's chairman and CEO, Chuck Johnson, outlined hisvision of the future.That future capacity, he is convinced, can come only from thecrops that companies such as Pioneer are producing: high-yield,insect-resistant breeds of corn, soybeans, sorghum and sunflowers.For the past few years, however, Pioneer has been offeringgenetically engineered seeds, which have genes spliced into theirchromosomes that make them more resistant to insects and weedkillers.Johnson told the journalists about herbicide-resistant soybeansand a variety of corn that produces a toxin normally made by abacterium known as Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.Last year, he said, a million acres of the Bt corn were plantedin the Midwest, with an increased yield of 10 percent to 15percent, thanks to the way the Bt toxin discourages corn-eatinginsects.Opponents of transgenic crops claim that ecological andevolutionary forces could turn these crops into disasters.
Perhapsthe plants will prove so robust that they will grow aggressively,like weeds, and invade other environments including a neighboringfarmer's fields.Virus-resistance genes could escape into weeds and make them sohardy they'd outcompete endangered plants in the wild.Antibiotic-resistance genes (which botanists insert intotransgenic crops as supposedly harmless markers) might escape intosoil bacteria and from there into those that infect humans.Is all this worry just more witchcraft and Satanism?
The onlyway to know how seriously to take such doomsday scenarios is to runexperiments.Researchers have only begun to do this work, setting upexperiments to see how readily transgenic genes and proteins canescape the crops they were meant to help.
The results thus far areproving that the doomsday scenarios are not pure fiction.But the researchers are split over whether the results should because for anxiety.
Much of the concern over transgenic crops stemsfrom the promiscuous sexual habits of plants.Not only can pollen from one breed of plant fertilize another,but different species can sometimes mate and produce hybrids thatcan reproduce.In the late 1980s geneticist Norman Ellstrand at the Universityof California at Riverside began warning of the dangers of thisgenetic escape.One could, for example, imagine an herbicide-resistance genegetting into weeds and making superweeds that could take over afield.Yet this possibility hinged on how likely it was for crops andweeds to hybridize, and for the transgenic genes to establishthemselves in the wild population.Ellstrand decided therefore to measure the likelihood, and in1996 he reported that domesticated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor, couldreadily form hybrids with a weed called Johnsongrass, Sorghumhalepense.These hybrids produced pollen and seeds as viable as thejohnsongrass, meaning that they could spread just as aggressively.Plant geneticist Rikke Bagger Jorgensen of Denmark's RisoNational Laboratory in Roskilde studied the yellow-flowered cropcalled oilseed rape, known in the United States as canola and inLatin as Brassica napus.
Oilseed rape is a cultivated cross betweena weed called wild mustard, or Brassica campestris, and Brassicaoleracea, the cabbage plant.Jorgensen planted a version of oilseed rape engineered tosurvive a weed killer called Basta alongside its wild ancestor (andweedy neighbor) B. campestris.Fertile hybrids easily formed, and when jorgensen sowed thehybrids together with the original weed, a second generation ofseeds was produced.
These seeds grew to adulthood and turned out tobe impervious to Basta as well.Jorgensen returned to her fields the following spring anddiscovered that this second generation had produced offspring oftheir own, which continued to be herbicide resistant.But it would be unwise to grow Basta-resistant oilseed rapealongside a crop resistant to a different herbicide.A weed with only one herbicide-resistance gene would, however,still be manageable.
As one researcher said, you can always destroythe plants with another herbicide.The prospect of herbicide-resistant crops creating the need forspraying still more herbicides doesn't fit well with theenvironmentally friendly image offered by companies like Pioneer.Yet some critics think that biotech corporations are actuallycomfortable with that prospect because they can make transgeniccrops as well as herbicides.Wilson has been studying transgenic gene flow and its possibleeffects not on the struggle between weeds and crops but betweenweeds and rare or fragile wild plant species.Herbicide resistance isn't so much of a problem in this regard,since weed killers are found only on farms.
Of far more pressingconcern to him is the possibility that genes for resistance toinsects, viruses and fungi can be just as important in the wild.It's conceivable that a spread of genes from transgenic cropsinto wild plants could allow them to outcompete other species.One possible way to contain the threat of transgene escape mightbe to bar certain genetically engineered crops when weedy relativesalready exist in a given place.The United States could similarly allow transgenic maizesoybeans, and potatoes to be farmed, since they have no wildrelatives with which they are sexually compatible here.
On theother hand, squashes and sunflowers do.There are ways that this policy might go wrong, however.
Adesperate farmer might ignore the law and plant a transgenic cropthat can breed with local weeds.And crop-to-weed gene exchanges are only one kind of change thattransgenic crops can bring.
Researchers have been developing atransgenic potato, for example, that can fight off the aphids thatfeed on it.
The new potato produces a protein called lectin thatruins the aphids' digestion.Greenhouse tests have shown that this transgenic potato canreduce populations of the peach-potato aphid by half.
That'simpressive but not quite good enough to allow the potatoes tosurvive on their own.
To fully protect their crop, farmers wouldneed to introduce aphid-devouring ladybugs.But as entomologist Nick Birch of the Scottish Crop ResearchInstitute in Dundee has shown, the lectin in the potato makesladybugs ill: After eating transgenic potato-glutted aphids,ladybugs produce far fewer offspring and live much shorter lives.Yet even though he has shown how transgenic crops can haveharmful effects that spread through a food chain, Birch doesn'tthink his results are cause for alarm.
If ladybugs can also findaphids in the wild that are unaffected by transgenic potatoes, theplant's harmful effects will be diluted.In general, Birch thinks that with careful tests of theirpotential effects, transgenic crops can prove safe and useful inreducing our dependence on pesticides.As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth'sgravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its largesolar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwesternsky.Fail to spot NEAR?
Don't despair.
While there won't be any moreinterplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew ofother manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be aroundafter August.
But they're here now during satellite season, whenEarth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunwardextreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in fullsunlight even an hour after sunset.More often they're used by the military to spy on us even aswe try to spy them.Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are largeenough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 milesup) to catch our eye.Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.How do you know you've spotted a satellite?
Elementary, my dearWestar.
If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that movesin a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes ratherthan seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or asatellite.Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.That's because they're usually launched in the same generaldirection as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free1,000-miles-per-hour boost.Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward orsouthward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a feworbits.Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellitesstationed 22,300 miles up.
Orbits at that distance aregeosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earthand so appear motionless.
Don't even think of finding them; theyare a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelesslyinvisible.Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off ifthey're tumbling.
And if they're tumbling and most do they'reno longer functioning.The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, andthe awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discardedthird-stage booster that went with it into orbit.Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around.
Afteronly a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.As the craft zipped in for a close approach (using Earth'sgravity to change its trajectory), the sun glinted off its largesolar panels, resulting in star-bright flashes in the northwesternsky.Fail to spot NEAR?
Don't despair.
While there won't be any moreinterplanetary probes to view, this time of year offers a slew ofother manmade objects slowly crisscrossing the heavens.They weren't visible two months ago, and they won't be aroundafter August.
But they're here now during satellite season, whenEarth's northern axis tilts just 5 degrees from its maximum sunwardextreme, allowing satellites as low as 200 miles to stand in fullsunlight even an hour after sunset.More often they're used by the military to spy on us even aswe try to spy them.Most satellites are invisible, but a few hundred are largeenough (typically school-bus size) and low enough (200 to 600 milesup) to catch our eye.Satellites perched 600 miles up appear some 10 times dimmer,take an extra 20 minutes to circle the globe and require up to 18minutes to cross from horizon to horizon.How do you know you've spotted a satellite?
Elementary, my dearWestar.
If it's a silent dot with no accompanying lights that movesin a straight line, and if it crosses the sky in minutes ratherthan seconds, you've spotted either an alien mother ship or asatellite.Satellites travel every which way, but never east to west.That's because they're usually launched in the same generaldirection as the rotation of Earth, which gives them a free1,000-miles-per-hour boost.Most don't circle the equator but are angled northward orsouthward so they can fly over much of our planet in just a feworbits.Many TV viewers aim backyard dishes at communications satellitesstationed 22,300 miles up.
Orbits at that distance aregeosynchronous the satellites orbit at the same speed as Earthand so appear motionless.
Don't even think of finding them; theyare a million times fainter than their lower cousins and hopelesslyinvisible.Satellites can shine fairly steadily or wink on and off ifthey're tumbling.
And if they're tumbling and most do they'reno longer functioning.The first Sputnik was too small to be seen by the naked eye, andthe awestruck world gazed unwittingly at the huge discardedthird-stage booster that went with it into orbit.Or simply go out as evening twilight ends and look around.
Afteronly a minute or two you'll strike orbiting pay dirt.But you don't really have anything to feel guilty about.
Yourhusband is the one who needs to unclench and join the rest of ushere in the late '90s.
For millions of people, online chat hasreplaced street-corner chatter and backyard-fence gossip.
And, whenyou consider that the guy on the other side of the fence may wellbe Norman Bates, it's a heck of a lot safer as long as you use somecommon sense: Don't give out your phone number or address, anddon't ever meet anybody you chat with in real life unless you do itin a public place and drag a couple of your friends along.
Oh, andprepare to be disappointed, because in a chat room nobody is whothey say they are, and if they are, well, they're probably lyingabout something else.
That's OK. You can be whomever you want, too.Some people might think it's unhealthy to be friends withstrangers from around the world instead of your own neighbors.
But,really now, what do I have in common with a lunatic saxophoneplayer who puts ceramic chickens and one of those stupid windsocksin his front yard?
I'd much rather talk to Mandy, the 19-year-oldsupermodel from Argentina, about quantum physics, geopoliticaleconomic strategy and interesting things you can do with Jell-O.
Atleast she says she's a supermodel.
For all I know I'm talking withMargaret Thatcher.
Where's the harm?Anyway, back to your husband being a loon.
He's probably blowingsmoke about keeping track of your extracurricular typing.
Maybe ifhe's got way too much time on his hands, he's actually figured outa way to make you think he knows all and sees all.
For instance, ifyou chat on Yahoo!
or any other place where you use your browser,the chat site not only shows up in your history folder, there's agood chance some of the pages are in the browser cache.
All youhave to do is dump your temporary Internet files to get rid of theevidence.Or, maybe you're using some sort of a chat program that can logyour conversations, and your paranoid little hubby has switchedthat feature on and forgotten to tell you about it.
Could be he'struly insane and has some sort of program running on your computerthat records all your keystrokes and commands.
The problem is notwhether it's possible for him to do it, it's that he feels like hehas to do it at all, or at least intimidate you into feeling likehe can.Now, if anybody out there knows a way that people can actuallytrack your chats the way this guy claims to, please let me know andI'll pass it along.
Nobody should be able to get away with that.Besides, I'd hate it if my recipe for Hot Jell-O Surprise got out.
(Noted computerologist Dr. Emilio Bombay offers occasionallyaccurate advice about most things electronic.
He can be reached onInternet at drbombay(at)star-telegram.com; via snail-mail at FortWorth Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth 76101; or fax: (817)390-7257.
His real name is Michael Gerst, editorial systems managerfor the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
Visit the Star-Telegram's onlineservices on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)ATLANTA There's something a little silly about turning to yourPC for advice about exercise.
After all, if you didn't spend sodanged much time sitting at the keyboard, cruising the Web andsending e-mail, you'd get outside more.But since the PC and the Internet are facts of life now, youmight as well use some of the resources of the World Wide Web tofind ways to get in shape..tyrell.net/(tilde)fitness/ and zap on over to World FitnessOnline.
This is a good place to start, because you'll probablyagree with the philosophy here.
The notion, according to this page,is:The practical nature of this page also extends to the sort offeatures you'll find.
If you want to get in shape without spendinga lot of money, you'll be able to follow the directions here forconstructing some of your own exercise equipment, including awooden stair device.
It isn't as fancy as the step machines you'llfind in the gym, but you won't need to spend your hard-earned moneyto get one.
And, since you'll build the wooden stepper yourself,you'll get your first exercise just from constructing it.Then, as you'd expect, there are sections that offer exerciseadvice, as well as a forum where you can leave questions for theexercise experts who hang around this site./fitnesspartner/.
You already know that exercise alone isn'tenough for good personal fitness, so the emphasis of this site ondiet and eating the right foods will fit right in with your fitnessplan.You'll also get the sometimes-depressing news here of how manycalories you're burning while engaged in various exerciseactivities.
That's because there's a high-tech calculator that letsyou enter the information about your exercise program and get afairly accurate indication of the calories you burn.You probably know all about personal trainers.
That's the ragenow at the gym.
These folks help you set up an exercise plan andhealth goals based on your age, weight, physical condition andpersonal goals.
Well, now it's time for you to meet a virtualpersonal trainer that can do almost the same thing.
Just head for asite called The Fitness Zone: Fitness Profile at http://wwwYou'll fill out the on-screen form with the same kind ofinformation you'd give a real-world personal trainer and, in justseconds, get an exercise profile and an assessment of your currentfitness level.
You'll need to know your blood pressure to fill outthe form, but you should know that anyway, since a visit to yourphysician is strongly recommended before starting any new exerciseplan.Since -- right or wrong -- most of us associate a fitness planwith losing weight, you'll want to stop by a site called Shape UpAmerica at http://www.shapeupFinally, to get started on your fitness program, perform thislow-stress exercise.
Reach out with your right finger, turn offyour computer and take a walk.This Windows computer is not much bigger than a computermagazine.
The bright, sharp, 10.4-inch active-matrix screen sharesthe 800 by 600 pixel resolution of the IBM 560 line, but itssmaller size gives it a better chance of being useful in coachclass seats.The price for all this miniaturization is a surprisingly low$2,000, but a slightly fancier model, the VAIO 505GX, is scheduledto be introduced June 23 at the PC Expo show at the Jacob K. JavitsConvention Center.
It increases the processor speed to 266megahertz and adds a fast IEEE 1394 port that few users will everneed.
Those enhancements do not seem worth the extra $700 Sony willexact for them.Both machines will officially be available July 24.
The reviewunits I tried came with Windows 98 preinstalled, but lacked manualsand the very last of their software tweaks and had some problemssuspending themselves and awakening where they left off.Nonetheless, they came as close to being portable dream machines asany I have ever used.The big question mark with a little machine is its keyboard.
Atjust under 90 percent of normal width, this one is serviceable butnot without annoyances.
The right shift key is undersized, the toprow keys, including delete, are downright tiny, and the layouttakes getting used to.
While you master it, you will probably beglad for the oversized backspace key.
Though the palm rest iscomfortable and helps counteract the screen's tendency to tilt theunit backward when you use it in your lap, the keyboard lacks thesilken feel of IBM 560s.I strongly prefer pointing sticks to the touchpads that Sonyfavors, but I was able to adjust this one to be a bit less twitchythan some I have tried.
On one unit the left button was excessivelystiff and unresponsive, so I did my clicking by tapping my fingeron the pad.
A compartment at the edge of the screen holds a stylus;in collaboration with a program called Scribblepad, it lets youwrite or draw on the touchpad and see the results on the screen.That might be a lifesaver if you need to sign a digital documentdigitally, but I found it tricky to use.
An unlimited undo featurehelps.The hard disk's sluggishness sometimes delays keyboard response.To speed things up, I would seriously consider adding an extra 32megabytes of random access memory for about $75.
The currentmaximum RAM total is 64 megabytes; newer forms of memory expectedlater this year will extend that limit to 96.A monaural speaker, a headphone jack, a microphone (and separateinput), an infrared port and a Universal Serial Bus port are allbuilt in.
A port replicator is included and offers the otherstandard connectors printer, serial, keyboard, mouse and monitor but dangles from the computer, connected only by a cable.
Theunit also comes with an outboard floppy disk drive.A matching CD-ROM player costs about $300.
It uses a PC Card toconnect, but in a rare design gaffe, it requires AC power andcannot use the same power adapter as the computer.
One of theportable PC Card CD-ROM drives that can run on batteries would be abetter choice.
Clever stereo speakers that cost about $100 a pairand weigh about an ounce each snap on and off the edges of thescreen like ears without requiring cables.
They improve the sound,but the volume is low and their output will not be confused withhigh fidelity.The computer's battery life is surprisingly good.
In my tests,the purple lithium-ion cylinder that comes with the unit lastsabout two hours at the maximum performance setting if you avoidusing the hard disk much and about an hour more if you let thepower management software reduce screen brightness and slow thingsdown.
Frequent fliers will want the double-cylinder auxiliarybattery that adds about five ounces to the machine's total weightbut lasts significantly longer and helps balance the unit bysticking out a bit at the back.
Its only drawback is that it costsabout $300.A button beside the power switch can be programmed to run any ofthree programs of your choosing whenever you press it alone or incombination with the Alt or Control keys.
A flip-out door turnsinto a K56flex modem that accepts a standard phone jack,eliminating the need for special connectors.
Software should allowit to be upgraded to the newer V.90 standard at no charge.What I hope will not become standard is Sony's practice ofmaking the warranty last just 90 days unless you register themachine to get nine months more.
Batteries are warranted for ameasly 30 days, period.In the coming months, lightweight computers ranging from cheaperWindows CE machines to pricier machines with bigger screens andtheir own distinctive looks will vie for the spotlight.
But for themoment the VAIO 505G is one of the best deals around.
And if youwant to attract attention with your computer, there may be nobetter way than to flaunt Sony's skinny lavender dandy.The government's antitrust battle against Microsoft Corp. hasnot tarnished the company's reputation as an outstanding businessthat makes high-quality products.
But according to the latest NewYork Times/CBS News poll, a majority of Americans do think thatMicrosoft is a monopoly and that the Justice Department shouldcontinue to investigate the company and its business practices.Both in a nationwide telephone poll last week and in follow-upinterviews, people again and again expressed deep admiration forthe accomplishments of Microsoft and Bill Gates, the company'sfamous co-founder and chairman.
Yet the same people repeatedly saidthere was an important role for the government to play to make surethat fair play was maintained in the high-technology economy thatMicrosoft has come to symbolize.In the court of public opinion, the burden of proof clearlyrests on the side of the government to show that Microsoft has doneanything illegal.
Fifty-five percent of Americans surveyed saidthat they had a favorable opinion of Microsoft, while only 15percent held an unfavorable opinion.
(The remaining 30 percent hadno opinion on the matter.)
Most people said their opinion ofMicrosoft had not changed as a result of the Justice Department'sinvestigation.Even the 60 percent of people who say the Justice Departmentshould continue to investigate Microsoft are not necessarilyconvinced that the government was justified in bringing a majorantitrust case against the company last month.The Justice Department has contended that Microsoft has usedunfair practices to defend its monopoly in the market forpersonal-computer operating-system software, the program thatcontrols the basic operations of a computer, and to try to gain anedge in the new markets of Internet software and commerce.Public opinion, to be sure, plays no direct role in antitrustpolicy.
Yet it is inevitably a consideration when bringing a majorcase like the suit against Microsoft.
Congress controls the JusticeDepartment's budget, and a big case that is seen as too far out ofstep with public opinion could bring pressure from Congress.So when the Microsoft suit was announced in Washington on May18, Attorney General Janet Reno appeared before a battery oftelevision cameras.Public opinion, he added, also sets the limits of governmentaction.
The Justice Department, for example, has not moved to breakup the big software company, as was done with the Bell System in1984 and as some industry analysts have advocated in the Microsoftcase.People are split almost evenly on whether the government did theright thing in filing suit against Microsoft, with 35 percentsaying it was right and 27 percent saying it was a mistake.
Theremaining 38 percent were undecided or were not aware of the case.People who said the investigation should continue but thoughtthe Justice Department was mistaken in filing the antitrust suittended to view the appropriate role for government as more areferee than a prosecutor.
They also regarded some of what they hadheard of Microsoft's aggressive business practices as part of therough-and-tumble of capitalism.The Times/CBS poll does illustrate the high regard that mostAmericans have for Microsoft and for Gates.
Nearly five times asmany people have a favorable opinion of Gates as have anunfavorable opinion 39 percent to 8 percent, with the restundecided or unfamiliar with Gates.
The favorable-unfavorable splitfor President Clinton in the same poll is much more evenly divided:at 45 percent favorable, 37 percent unfavorable and the restundecided.In the case of Microsoft, familiarity breeds respect or atleast familiarity with its products does.
On almost every Microsoftquestion asked in the poll, the more that people used computers,the more pro-Microsoft their answers were.
For example, amongpeople who not only use computers but have installed software ontheir own, 78 percent had a favorable opinion of Microsoft comparedwith 55 percent of all those questioned for the poll.Most Americans are technological optimists, according to theTimes/CBS poll, with 59 percent saying that computers solve moreproblems than they create, while 29 percent say they create moreproblems than they solve.
Among computer users, 71 percent see themachines as solving more problems than they create.
And two-thirdsof Americans now use a computer either at home or at work,according to the survey.Still, many Americans appear to be embracing the information agetentatively, if not fearfully.
More than half of all computerusers, 52 percent, say they have never installed a software program a basic step in computing.
While technology enthusiasts nevertire of extolling the virtues of computers as personalized tools ofempowerment, the Times/CBS poll suggests that a large share of thecomputer-using public has no interest in tailoring their machinesor changing them.The portrait of many people as passive recipients of computertechnology may also cast some doubt on one of Microsoft's argumentsin its dispute with the government.
The Justice Department,Microsoft says, has overstated the advantage the company enjoysbecause the main desktop screen that users see when they turn ontheir machines is Microsoft's Windows.
That first screen can beeasily changed or modified, Microsoft insists.Microsoft's market power is viewed with both ambivalence andpragmatism, according to the Times/CBS poll.
Monopoly, it seems, isno longer regarded as an economic evil.
A majority of thosequestioned say Microsoft is a monopoly a label Microsoft itselfshuns but 77 percent also say Microsoft makes high-qualityproducts.
And 58 percent of computer users and 67 percent of peoplewho have installed software themselves consider Microsoft'sdominant role in the software business to be good for consumers.A certain ambivalence about big, successful companies, and whatthe government's role should be in policing them, has been a themeof American public opinion for decades, analysts say.Consider Christopher Rogers, a 25-year-old medical student inPhiladelphia, who seems little concerned by the dominance ofMicrosoft's Windows operating system.Still, Rogers, like others polled, is skeptical about whetherconsumers would benefit if Microsoft were to control the market forsoftware used for browsing the Internet a market that is a focusof the Justice Department's case.
Only 8 percent of those polledsaid it would be a good thing if Microsoft dominated the browsermarket, 41 percent said it would be bad, 39 percent said it wouldmake no difference and 12 percent had no opinion.The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selectedby a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 activeresidential exchanges across the country.Within each exchange, random digits were added to form acomplete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listedand unlisted numbers.
Within each household, one adult wasdesignated by a random procedure to be the respondent for thesurvey.The results have been weighted to take account of household sizeand number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust forvariations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race,age and education.In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on suchsamples will differ by no more than three percentage points ineither direction from what would have been obtained by seeking outall American adults.For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger.For example, for the 315 most sophisticated computer users in thesample it is plus or minus six percentage points.In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties ofconducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sourcesof error into the poll.
Variations in the wording or order ofquestions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.This week the Lotus Development Corp. will begin shipping theSmart Suite Millennium Edition, which includes the latest versionof the 1-2-3 spreadsheet program, word processing, data base,graphics and other productivity software.
The question is doesanyone care.Battered by the relentless onslaught of Microsoft, Lotus hasseen its market share in desktop software dwindle so low that manyanalysts no longer bother to track it.
Although Smart Suite hasoften been praised by reviewers and users as a cleaner,less-cluttered alternative to Microsoft's Office 97, Microsoft'sability to tie the applications to the Windows operating system hasproved an unbeatable advantage.Smart Suite is to be shipped on Wednesday at a suggested retailprice of $399; the upgrade price for users of older Lotus orcompeting programs is $149.
In addition to 1-2-3, Smart Suiteincludes the Word Pro word processor, Freelance Graphicspresentation application, Approach data base, Organizer time andcontact manager and Screencam multimedia tool.
It also includesLotus Mail e-mail as well as both the Netscape Navigator 4.0 andMicrosoft Internet Explorer 4.0 browsers.Sales of the original IBM personal computer were driven by Lotus1-2-3, which combined an accountant's spreadsheet with a programthat could turn the rows of numbers into charts and graphs.
ButLotus stumbled as the PC evolved.
It was late to market with aversion of 1-2-3 for the Apple Macintosh, allowing Microsoft Excelto grab that market; late again when Microsoft Windows took off,ceding the PC itself to Excel, and late again when the marketturned to the bundles of applications called suites.
IBM acquired aweakened Lotus in June 1995.While Lotus 1-2-3 was once the world's leading software program,Smart Suite is a distant third behind Office 97 and Corel Corp.'sWordperfect Suite, said Ann Stephens, an analyst with PC Data.Measured in units, Lotus' retail market share is 3.7 percent,behind Corel's 26.5 percent and Microsoft's nearly 70 percent;Lotus' corporate market share is 2 percent, behind Corel at 2.6percent and Microsoft with more than 95 percent.
In dollar terms,Lotus has 2.4 percent of the retail and 2.2 percent of thecorporate markets.Jeffrey Papows, president and chief executive at Lotus, saysSmart Suite's global market share is higher than these figuresindicate, about 7 percent in dollars, 22 to 24 percent in units,and higher than Corel's share.
He said 7 percent of a $5 billionmarket was still worth pursuing, and a profitable business.
But heconceded that Smart Suite had been battered by Office 97, largelybecause Microsoft could offer it to PC makers along with theWindows operating system at terms no one could refuse.Reviewers have long praised Smart Suite's superior integrationwith Notes, Lotus' popular groupware program, which allows severalusers to collaborate on documents and other projects across anetwork.
The new release adds stronger support for Domino, whichextends Notes to the World Wide Web for e-mail and other functions.It also adds tools that enable users to create Web sites withoutprogramming, and it incorporates IBM's voice-recognitiontechnology.Lotus counts International Paper, Abbott Laboratories and Marsamong major companies using Smart Suite.
Analysts say manycompanies still use 1-2-3 even if they have adopted MicrosoftOffice for word processing and graphics.The AFA Web site ran into trouble with Cyber Patrol becauseresearchers at the company decided it met the filter's definitionof intolerance, which includes discrimination based on sexualorientation.Smith concedes that these words are strong stuff.
But, he says,they are delivered in the context of the group's belief that Godloves all and are not akin to Neo-Nazi or Ku Klux Klan-typevirulence.Association officials insist that their viewpoint is adeeply-held religious conviction that does not equate to preachinghatred of homosexuals.Cyber Patrol bans up to 12 categories of material consideredinappropriate for the typical 12-year-old surfing without an adult,from gambling to cult Web sites.
But customers can pick and choosewhich categories to block, as well as unlock access to individualsites they consider acceptable, according to Susan Getgood,spokeswoman for The Learning Company Inc., the Cambridge, Mass.educational software firm that makes Cyber Patrol.And, she notes, in Cyber Patrol's case online publishers whobelieve their sites have been unfairly blocked can take the routeof the AFA and appeal the decision to an independent panel thatincludes educators, parents and representatives of groups asdiverse as the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and theconservative group, Morality in Media.Supporters of filters respond that the flap in no way underminestheir belief in the necessity of the products to help parentsshield the young from what they view as pernicious influencesonline.Meadows is executive director of The Presidio Trust, thequasi-public group charged with converting the former Army baseinto a facility for a variety of civilian uses.Exactly who gets what already has become a controversy.
But thearguments so far have overlooked a hidden asset one that Meadowsthinks can fuel the Presidio's economic engine.In the Internet age, having fiber in the ground is like abuilding site being wired for electricity or plumbed for water andsewage.Meadows plans to make this fiber loop the nerve center of a webof multimedia, video and Internet-based enterprises.One industry hehopes to kick-start is the creation of distance-learning broadcastcenters for colleges.He also intends to plug all 1,600 housing units on the Presidiointo this fiber net, so folks at home will be able to holdvideo-conferences with their offices or with other Presidiofamilies.This isn't just some bureaucratic dream.
Before he came to thePresidio, Meadows managed the conversion of Denver's Lowry AirForce Base.
There, he created a fiber town with 4,000 wired homesand many multimedia enterprises.Meadows expects to encounter envy and opposition from those notlucky enough to land in this high-tech Garden of Eden.That's the gist of a new survey conducted by the Institute forthe New California, a public policy group in Walnut Creek.
The INCreached this conclusion after polling a scientific sample ofadults.The Institute defined wired workers as wage earners who workedoutside the home, used network-connected PCs on the job, and wererelatively free to organize their own workdays.Pollster Mike Hais said the survey respondents who fit thisdefinition identified themselves as independents, Republicans andDemocrats, in that order.Coincidence or not: The Institute was co-founded by MorleyWinograd, a former Bell executive who now serves as senior policyadviser to Gore.
Bookmark it!
CMP, the Long Island-based trade-presspublisher, soon will unveil a new Web site that makes it easier tofind electronics industry information.CMP has taken the contents of dozens of its pubs among them EETimes and Windows magazine and made it accessible from a singlepage.
It combines a search engine with a Yahoo-like set ofcategories that point to sub-topics like semiconductors, PCs,finance, etc.Other Web sites, notably Cnet and ZDNet, put tons of greattech-type info online.
But I think CMP has a better way to letpeople quickly zero in on just what they want.The site won't be open to the public until Monday, but Chroniclereaders can get a peek today at www.cmpnet.com/search.
Questionable taste?
If it's such a boom time in SiliconValley, why did a recent survey of car dealers find that thelowball Ford Taurus was the top-selling car in Santa Clara Countylast year, while the Mercedes-Benz E-class was 15th on the list?Got a tip, gripe or brainstorm?
Tom Abate wants to hear it byphone (650-961-2689), fax (650-961-5023) or e-mail (abate(atsign)sfgate.com).The Federal Communications Commission decided Friday to reduceby more than 40 percent the budget of a plan to connect schools andlibraries to the Internet.Under bipartisan pressure from members of Congress whomaintained that the program would increase long-distance telephonerates, the commission agreed to trim the program.
All three of theDemocrats on the commission voted in favor of the plan, while thetwo Republicans opposed it.Under the new plan, $1.275 billion will be raised for theprogram this year, down from an original maximum of $2.25 billion.Long-distance carriers are required to provide most of the money.About 30,000 schools and libraries have applied for about $2.02billion from the program.
Under the plan approved Friday, fewerthan two-thirds of those requests will be granted, which will skewthe distribution of money toward the poorest school systems.The commission has already raised $625 million for the program.Under the plan approved Friday, it will raise another $650 millionbetween July 1 and the end of the year.Originally a relatively obscure offshoot of theTelecommunications Act of 1996, the schools and libraries programbecame the subject of a hard-fought political debate last week whenfour powerful members of Congress urged the commission to cut offits funding altogether.ATT Corp. and MCI Communications Corp., the two biggestlong-distance carriers, have said in recent months that theyintended to pass the cost of their contributions to the program onto consumers.That set off a blast of protest on Capitol Hill, aimed at theFCC and in particular at the commission's chairman, WilliamKennard.
Kennard had already angered many members of Congress bypushing for free air time for political candidates.Relations between the commission and Congress have been testyfor years.
The two institutions have been battling over the properimplementation of the Telecommunications Act, which was meant toderegulate many elements of the communications market.The fight over the schools and libraries program has becomeperhaps the commission's most important battle.
The program enjoysthe favor of Vice President Al Gore, who has taken particularinterest in the Internet and other forms of advanced technology.Opponents of the program contend that the FCC illegally exceededits authority when it established a quasi-independent corporationto disburse money to libraries and schools.
On Friday thecommission agreed to merge the schools and libraries corporationinto the organization that administers subsidies to limit phonerates in rural areas.Nowhere is the expansion more evident than at the ElectronicEntertainment Exposition, a trade show also known as E3 thatfeatures all the newest and latest game gear.
This year, as last,it was held at the Georgia World Congress Center in Atlanta thelast weekend in May.
About 40,000 people attended during itsfour-day run.The exhibit filled more than 35 football fields of space.
If theshow is any indication, it looks like the coming year will bringmore of the same in computer games, an increase of the CD-likedisks called DVD that holds more than CDs, and more talking toysthat are built around computer chips.My Interactive Pooh from Mattel is one of them.
Pooh joinsBarney and Barbie on the talk circuit.
He sings more than two dozensongs and plays about a dozen games.
By linking him to thecomputer, Pooh can be programmed to say the child's name, and otherfeatures can be customized.Mattel is also expanding on its Barbie line with Barbie's PhotoDesigner Digital Color Camera.
The digital camera stores only sixphotos at a time, which can be connected to a computer so they canbe saved for future use.
Once in the computer, the child can usethe photos in other projects or with Barbie programs to makepostcards.Mindscape will also expand on the National Geographic magazinetheme this fall when it publishes National Geographic Maps, afour-CD collection of every fold-out map published in NationalGeographic.
The company will also join the trip-planning arena inthe fall with the release of National Geographic Trip PlannerDeluxe for planning trips in the U.S. and Canada.Well-known learning software titles for children and youngadults from Davidson Associates won't be sold under the Davidsonname any more.
The products, which include the JumpStart LearningSystem, the Blaster Learning System and Fisher-Price titles, willbe sold under the Knowledge Adventure brand.That announcement came at E3, along with another from thecompany on its new assessment technology feature being incorporatedinto its JumpStart Learning System programs.
Before using thesoftware, kids will take an assessment test so the program candetermine where the child needs the most help.
Then the programwill begin at the most appropriate level for that child.The new test will be included in soon-to-be released revampedtitles, JumpStart Preschool and JumpStart 1st Grade.
It will alsobe in a new title, JumpStart Adventures 6th Grade.
The produces areexpected to be available in late summer or early fall.
The pricewill be in the $30 range.
(Lonnie Brown is associate editor of The Ledger in Lakeland,Fla.
He can be reached by e-mail at LonnieB001(AT)aol.com.
Anarchive of his recent computer columns is on the Internet athttp://www.theledger.com/data.htm.
)For that, you'll need software tools with a higher level ofsophistication.
If you're serious about working with images and arewilling to spend some time learning the intricacies of theseprograms, you can achieve some spectacular results.Here's a look at two software programs at two ends of the pricespectrum, and a low-cost drawing tablet you can use with eitherone: Paint Shop Pro 5.0, $99, Jasc Software: If you've usedconsumer software to work with images such as Adobe PhotoDeluxeor Microsoft's PictureIt!
and have been disappointed with thelack of flexibility or power, Paint Shop Pro is worth considering.And doing so is a snap.
A fully functional version is availablefor downloading from Jasc's Web site at www.jasc.com.
Grab it, tryit, and if you decide to use it you can get a registration key, ororder the disk and accompanying manual online.Paint Shop Pro has long been considered an alternative to thepricier Photoshop, but it's always been a step behind incapabilities.
Version 4.0, for example, lacked the ability to dolayers, a feature that lets you lay one image on top of another.You can change one layer without affecting the rest of the image, apowerful tool when combining pictures or going after specialeffects.On the other hand, Paint Shop Pro has been easier to use thanPhotoshop, and its developers tried to automate tasks wherever theycould.
For example, version 4.0 of Paint Shop Pro couldautomatically create a shadow effect, something that had to be donemanually in Photoshop.This new version, though, brings Paint Shop Pro to near-paritywith Photoshop.
It now includes the ability to do layers, albeitwith a simpler system than Photoshop.It also borrows from other programs, such as MetaTools' FractalDesign Painter.
It has nozzles that let you paint with specificobjects.
For example, you can lay down a row of dice, cars,airplanes, stars or any one of several dozen icons just by clickingand dragging with your mouse.
You can add others, too.Version 5.0 is not a radical departure over 4.0.
Instead,developers have concentrated on making Photoshop which has anotoriously steep learning curve easier to use.
Many commontasks, such as the aforementioned shadow creation, have finallybeen automated.Adobe has tweaked some of the commonly used tools in Photoshopto make them friendlier.
For example, artists who wanted toindicate the edge of an object in an image had to painstakinglydraw around those edges.
Now, the pencil and lasso tools aremagnetic the program itself senses where the edges are and clingsto them.
Pablo, $99, KidBoard: When it comes time to draw something,nothing beats a pen and paper.
But most computer users who aren'tprofessional artists still struggle with a mouse, a distinctlyclunky drawing device.Computer drawing tablets have been on the market for years, butgenerally they've been priced out of reach of many consumers.
Pablois the first quality drawing tablet aimed squarely at the homemarket.Its drawing area is decently sized, at about 8 inches by 6inches.
An attached overlay of plastic lets you put imagesunderneath for tracing.The stylus can be attached by a cord on either side of thetable, making it comfortable for either right- or left-handers.Using Pablo is simple.
Just press a button on the stylus toactivate it.
With art programs designed to work with a tablet andall the titles mentioned here will the effects are similar tousing a real pen, brush or marker.
The longer and harder you pressdown, the darker and more pronounced the image will be on thescreen.If you are used to drawing with a mouse, it may take a while toget the hang of drawing on a tablet and getting the results youwant.
But once you master Pablo, it will be difficult to go back.
Dwight Silverman can receive electronic mail via the Internet.Address your comments and questions todwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000 and enteraccess code 1001.
XXXX END OF STORYQ: I do a great deal of PowerPoint presentations and I have touse an overhead projector.
A few years back I purchased a PC-to-TVconverter.
The problem with this was that it would only handle thelowest-resolution graphics available.
Do you know of any way I canuse my PC and a TV as a monitor that will display the high level ofgraphics that PowerPoint needs to be effective?A: There are several graphics cards available now that featurewhat's called TV-out.
They will connect to either a monitor or aTV, and the TV function is designed specifically for presentations.Canada-based ATI Technologies is the most prolific manufacturerof these kinds of cards.
At the high end is its All-in-Wonder andAll-in-Wonder Pro, two video boards that include 2-D and 3-Dgraphics acceleration with a TV tuner and TV-out capabilities.
Theystart at about $170 and go up to $350, depending on the model andthe amount of memory installed.ATI also makes a low-end product, the 3D Xpression, withPC-to-TV capabilities, that sells for about $120.STB Systems of Richardson also makes a TV-out version of itspopular Velocity 128 2-D/3-D accelerator.
It sells for about $150.Finally, if you're interested in notebook computers with TV-outcapability, take a look at Compaq Computer Corp.'s Armada 4200series.Be sure when you're shopping for any kind of PC-to-TV devicethat you get one compatible with the television standards for thecountries you travel to.
In the United States, for example, you'llwant one that's NTSC-compatible.A: BIOS stands for Basic Input Output System, and it controlsthe ground-level functions of a personal computer.
For example,when your PC boots up, it's the BIOS that begins the process thatpulls in the operating system.The BIOS controls such basic things as screen display, thekeyboard, drives and serial ports.
Other system components, bothhardware and software, work with the BIOS to improve the functionof these essential parts.You can change some of the functions of your BIOS.
Check themanual that came with your computer to see how to enter the BIOSsetup screen.
In most cases, you'll need to hit a key just as yoursystem starts the boot process.
On computers that use AmericanMegatrends BIOSes, for example, you hit the DEL key.It's a good idea to write down the settings in your BIOS beforeyou make any changes.
Altering the BIOS is not kid stuff if youdon't know what you're doing, then don't do it.However, it's possible that you will have to replace the BIOSchip itself in some older computers.
And in much older systems, youmay not be able to make any changes at all.
Got a question about your computer?
Dwight Silverman can receiveelectronic mail via the Internet.
Address your comments andquestions to dwight.silverman(at)chron.com, or call (713) 220-2000and enter access code 1001.
XXXX END OF STORYRegular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy.
Evenwhen I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away onits own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading somefree software.Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Offswitch more frequently than usual.
It's the time of year forsudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toastmicrocircuitry into pumpernickel.I love lightning; computers hate it.
A near-direct hit 13 yearsago wrecked the first computer I ever owned.
Yes, I was using asurge suppressor.
Good thing too the surge-box maker picked upthe $600 repair tab.That's why you install one of these devices insurance.
Surgesuppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection fromelectrical unpleasantness.
And if they don't work, you won't haveto pay for the damage to your hardware.A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noisefrom electric motors.
That can alter the standard 60-hertzfrequency that your computer is designed for.
There are power sagscaused by other devices starting up if your lights flicker whenthe fridge starts up, you know what I mean.
There are brownouts longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days whenelectric demand is greater than the utility can supply.
And ofcourse the power can die altogether.Even so, Hester favors some extra protection.
For most people,that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricitygoing to your computer.But be sure you're using it properly.
That means that everysingle electrical device connected to your computer should behooked up to the suppressor.
Skip just one of them the printer,say and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine.
Yourphone line can carry surges right into your modem.
Nowadays, surgeboxes nearly always include phone line protection.
Use it.
And ifyour surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better thanan extension cord.
So plug into a proper three-prong outlet.
Thebetter surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tellyou if they're grounded.A good suppressor should have been tested by UnderwritersLaboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it'shit by a 6,000-volt power spike.
This is called the UL 1449 rating be sure yours meets this standard.
Of course you should buy asuppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages toyour computer.
But that doesn't mean the device itself will last alifetime.
Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses itsprotective power after a few years.
It makes sense to buy new everyhalf-decade or so.Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout.
For that,you need an uninterruptible power supply.
Once only used inbusinesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me theirBackUPS Office product for a tryout.
It looks like an overgrownsurge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid batteryinside, but it gets the job done.
I pulled the plug on my home PCby way of a test.
The battery drove the computer with two harddrives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutesbefore it gave up the ghost.
That was plenty of time to do a safeshutdown.
The BackUPS Office sells for around $125.
And there aremore expensive battery backup devices that come with softwarethat'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.Regular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy.
Evenwhen I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away onits own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading somefree software.Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Offswitch more frequently than usual.
It's the time of year forsudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toastmicrocircuitry into pumpernickel.I love lightning; computers hate it.
A near-direct hit 13 yearsago wrecked the first computer I ever owned.
Yes, I was using asurge suppressor.
Good thing too the surge-box maker picked upthe $600 repair tab.That's why you install one of these devices insurance.
Surgesuppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection fromelectrical unpleasantness.
And if they don't work, you won't haveto pay for the damage to your hardware.A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noisefrom electric motors.
That can alter the standard 60-hertzfrequency that your computer is designed for.
There are power sagscaused by other devices starting up if your lights flicker whenthe fridge starts up, you know what I mean.
There are brownouts longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days whenelectric demand is greater than the utility can supply.
And ofcourse the power can die altogether.Even so, Hester favors some extra protection.
For most people,that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricitygoing to your computer.But be sure you're using it properly.
That means that everysingle electrical device connected to your computer should behooked up to the suppressor.
Skip just one of them the printer,say and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine.
Yourphone line can carry surges right into your modem.
Nowadays, surgeboxes nearly always include phone line protection.
Use it.
And ifyour surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better thanan extension cord.
So plug into a proper three-prong outlet.
Thebetter surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tellyou if they're grounded.A good suppressor should have been tested by UnderwritersLaboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it'shit by a 6,000-volt power spike.
This is called the UL 1449 rating be sure yours meets this standard.
Of course you should buy asuppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages toyour computer.
But that doesn't mean the device itself will last alifetime.
Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses itsprotective power after a few years.
It makes sense to buy new everyhalf-decade or so.Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout.
For that,you need an uninterruptible power supply.
Once only used inbusinesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me theirBackUPS Office product for a tryout.
It looks like an overgrownsurge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid batteryinside, but it gets the job done.
I pulled the plug on my home PCby way of a test.
The battery drove the computer with two harddrives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutesbefore it gave up the ghost.
That was plenty of time to do a safeshutdown.
The BackUPS Office sells for around $125.
And there aremore expensive battery backup devices that come with softwarethat'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.ATLANTA -- Technology is changing so rapidly, economist GeorgeGilder said Thursday, people buying the latest in personalcomputers are still like cavemen tapping away in the dark.Instead of boxes sitting on desktops, the personal computer oftomorrow say, five years from now will be as small aspalm-sized cellular phones, but far more powerful and versatilethan today's PCs.At least that's the view of Gilder, a Reagan-era economistturned technology guru who spoke at Thursday's closing session ofSupercomm.
The telecommunications and information conference at theGeorgia World Congress Center is scheduled to return to AtlantaJune 6-10, 1999.Operating with the technology of a cellular phone, thenext-generation personal computers will have wireless Internetaccess, Gilder said.
Thus, even without access to a phone line,people will be able to transmit electronic mail, read newspapersand search the Web.People will be able to write as they drive, using speechrecognition to talk into their computers rather than type on akeyboard, Gilder said.
Those who want to work at home or the officecan plug in their machines to electrical sockets and hook them upto full-sized monitors.These evolving technologies are available, for instance, asmapping and speech-recognition software.
But Gilder predictedthey'll become more reliable and affordable as manufacturers pumpbillions of dollars into the potentially lucrative technologies.Experts predict the Internet will increasingly perform thosetasks, with competition driving down costs for the rising number ofInternet users.
One of the biggest roadblocks, Gilder said, isfederal regulations of emerging technologies.Rising to prominence as a supply-side economist during theReagan presidency, Gilder is an unabashed critic of federalintervention in capitalism.
For instance, he lambasted the recentlawsuits by the U.S. Justice Department against software giantMicrosoft and by the Federal Trade Commission against chip makerIntel.The team was hoping to exceed the largest previous study, whichlooked at 400 people, Cooper said.
But it was overwhelmed by theresponse.Of the respondents to the poll, roughly 8 percent could bequalified as cybersex compulsives, using sexual sites more than 10hours a week and reporting that their use distressed them orinterfered with their relationships.
Cooper said 3 percent to 6percent of the general population engages in compulsive sexualbehavior.Cooper cited in his report statistics gathered by RelevantKnowledge, a Web traffic-tracking company, that found 9.6 millionusers, or 15 percent of all Web users, logged on to the 10 mostpopular sexual sites in April.For people predisposed to sexual compulsivity, the accessibilityand anonymity of the Internet can make it easier to fall intodestructive behavior, he said.But those same traits of cyberspace may help people feel morecomfortable exploring erotic pursuits there.
That may be why agrowing number of women are turning to sexy Internet sites, Cooperspeculated.The researchers acknowledged that their respondents wereself-selected, not a random sample, and all were MSNBC users, whomCooper characterized as more professionally successful and affluentthan average Internet users.
But because of the size of the survey,he said, he believes it provides a valuable snapshot of people whogo on-line for sexual pursuits.While corporations and government agencies are spending tens ofbillions of dollars to solve the problem, investors still do notknow if those organizations are devoting enough time and resourcesto fix the potential computer bug before Jan. 1, 2000.Bennett announced at the hearing that he has introducedlegislation that would require companies to make specificdisclosures about what they have done to solve the problem and whatwork they have left to do.Computer experts warn that many computers originally programmedto recognize only the last two digits of a year will fail ormalfunction on Jan. 1, 2000, when the machines will assume it is1900.Under this theory, the impact of the glitch would be felt whenone computer system that thinks the year is 1900 interacts withanother computer system that thinks the year is 2000.The theory continues: Because computers can't think, neithersystem can understand why it is 99 years ahead or behind.
Unable tosort out the problem, the two systems would either stop or give outwrong information.Some computers can be reprogrammed through tedious review oftheir software code, but many devices have embedded microchips thatmust be physically replaced.Edward Yardeni, chief economist for the North American divisionof the investment firm Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, said the potentialcomputer failures could prove devastating for many companies.Steven L. Hock, president of Triaxsys Research Corp. ofMissoula, Mont., a consulting firm, said that nearly half of thenation's 250 largest companies have disclosed no information ontheir Year 2000 problem.Of the companies that did provide some disclosure, most of theinformation was so sketchy that it gave no clue as to where thefirms were in solving the problem, Hock said.Only about 10 companies gave specific details on their progresstoward fixing or replacing bad computer systems and predictedwhether they would be ready by 2000.He suggested that Congress require all companies to answer astandardized set of specific questions on their plans for fixingthe Year 2000 problem.Lynn Stout, a professor of securities law at GeorgetownUniversity, said companies would continue to avoid giving fullinformation unless they are forced to do so.
Disclose a summary of all costs already incurred in solvingthe potential glitch and how much more money the company expects tospend;WASHINGTON Facing intense bipartisan criticism on CapitolHill, William Kennard, chairman of the Federal CommunicationsCommission, offered Wednesday to scale back a plan to connectschools and libraries to the Internet and said his agency wouldmake a final decision by Friday.Appearing before the Senate communications subcommitteeconsidering his agency's budget, Kennard proposed stretching theinitial spending on the project to cover 18 months, instead of theplanned 12 months.Roughly 30,000 schools and libraries across the nation haveapplied for a total of $2 billion under the program.
About $625million has been collected this year, most of it from biglong-distance phone companies.
The commission and lawmakers areconcerned that financing all the applications from schools andlibraries could lead to higher long-distance rates.
Opponents ofthe program want to limit spending to the $625 million alreadyraised.People familiar with the negotiations between Congress and thecommission said that Kennard had started circulating a proposal togive the program a maximum of $2.3 billion over 18 months, or about$1.53 billion in 1998.
Kennard was also weighing a plan to limitthe program to as little as $1.35 billion in 1998.Senators at the hearing said the program as wasteful andill-suited to connecting students to cyberspace.The program, which emerged from the Telecommunications Act of1996, was originally limited by the commission to an annual budgetof $2.25 billion.It has been clear since the winter that the program would notreceive the full amount.
But until Wednesday, the commissioner hadnot publicly discussed altering the timetable for distributing thefunds.Powerful members of Congress, however, want to go much fartherto rein in the program.
The chairmen and ranking minority membersof both the House and Senate commerce committees, which oversee theFCC, said in a letter last week that the commission should suspendthe collection of money for the program.Critics contend that the FCC exceeded its authority inestablishing a quasi-independent corporation to run the program andsay the commission ought to focus more closely on protecting thesubsidies that keep down phone rates in rural areas.The letter was sent by Rep. Tom Bliley, R-Va., who is thechairman of the House Commerce Committee; Rep. John Dingell,D-Mich., who is the ranking minority member on the committee; Sen.John McCain, R-Ariz., who is chairman of the Senate CommerceCommittee, and Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., the ranking minoritymember on the committee.Since then, Speaker Newt Gingrich and Sen. Trent Lott, themajority leader, have spoken out against the program and bothPresident Clinton and Vice President Gore have voiced support forthe program.During sentencing Wednesday for Francis John Kufrovich ofsuburban Woodland Hills, prosecutors also said three otheryoungsters, some from the Los Angeles area, are prepared to testifyabout sexual relations with the 43-year-old.
Prosecutors declinedto say whether Kufrovich faces charges based on those allegations.In addition to 18 months in prison, Kufrovich also was orderedto undergo three years of supervised release, mental counseling andbiannual lie-detector tests about his contact with minors,officials said.Before the sentencing in U.S. District Court in New Haven,Conn., Kufrovich apologized tearfully to the Connecticut teen,saying counseling has helped him to recognize his problem.The girl, now 16, told Senior U.S. District Judge Ellen BreeBurns that the incident put her into a deep depression and gave heranxiety attacks that require medication.Kufrovich was ordered to pay $25,000 in restitution to thevictim and her family for psychiatric care and counseling,Garrity-Rokous said.This was one of the first cases in the country brought under the1996 Communications Decency Act, which makes it illegal to use theInternet to persuade or induce a minor into sex.Prosecutors said Kufrovich met the teen-ager in an online chatroom before arranging to meet her in Irving, Texas, where she andher mother were attending a swim meet in March 1996, Garrity-Rokoussaid.
Kufrovich checked into the same hotel and invited the girl tohis room, where he tried to molest her, court records said.Kufrovich pleaded guilty in March to one felony count each ofcommunicating interstate to entice a minor to engage in sex andtraveling interstate with the same intent.Because Kufrovich had no criminal record, federal sentencingguidelines called for a sentence of 12 to 21 months, which isconsiderably less than the maximum 10-year prison term, theprosecutor said.Meadows is executive director of The Presidio Trust, thequasi-public group charged with converting the former Army baseinto a facility for a variety of civilian uses.Exactly who gets what already has become a controversy.
But thearguments so far have overlooked a hidden asset one that Meadowsthinks can fuel the Presidio's economic engine.In the Internet age, having fiber in the ground is like abuilding site being wired for electricity or plumbed for water andsewage.Meadows plans to make this fiber loop the nerve center of a webof multimedia, video and Internet-based enterprises.One industry hehopes to kick-start is the creation of distance-learning broadcastcenters for colleges.He also intends to plug all 1,600 housing units on the Presidiointo this fiber net, so folks at home will be able to holdvideo-conferences with their offices or with other Presidiofamilies.This isn't just some bureaucratic dream.
Before he came to thePresidio, Meadows managed the conversion of Denver's Lowry AirForce Base.
There, he created a fiber town with 4,000 wired homesand many multimedia enterprises.Meadows expects to encounter envy and opposition from those notlucky enough to land in this high-tech Garden of Eden.That's the gist of a new survey conducted by the Institute forthe New California, a public policy group in Walnut Creek.
The INCreached this conclusion after polling a scientific sample ofadults.The Institute defined wired workers as wage earners who workedoutside the home, used network-connected PCs on the job, and wererelatively free to organize their own workdays.Pollster Mike Hais said the survey respondents who fit thisdefinition identified themselves as independents, Republicans andDemocrats, in that order.Coincidence or not: The Institute was co-founded by MorleyWinograd, a former Bell executive who now serves as senior policyadviser to Gore.
Bookmark it!
CMP, the Long Island-based trade-presspublisher, soon will unveil a new Web site that makes it easier tofind electronics industry information.CMP has taken the contents of dozens of its pubs among them EETimes and Windows magazine and made it accessible from a singlepage.
It combines a search engine with a Yahoo-like set ofcategories that point to sub-topics like semiconductors, PCs,finance, etc.Other Web sites, notably Cnet and ZDNet, put tons of greattech-type info online.
But I think CMP has a better way to letpeople quickly zero in on just what they want.The site won't be open to the public until Monday, but Chroniclereaders can get a peek today at www.cmpnet.com/search.
Questionable taste?
If it's such a boom time in SiliconValley, why did a recent survey of car dealers find that thelowball Ford Taurus was the top-selling car in Santa Clara Countylast year, while the Mercedes-Benz E-class was 15th on the list?Got a tip, gripe or brainstorm?
Tom Abate wants to hear it byphone (650-961-2689), fax (650-961-5023) or e-mail (abate(atsign)sfgate.com).ATLANTA Once upon a time, if you wanted to be techno-cool itwas enough to have an e-mail account and a fast computer.Nowadays that won't get you into the club.
So if the real geeksand gurus edge away from you at work, I am here today to bring youa message of hope.
You, too, can be a geek, even if you think IRQonce invaded Kuwait and the chips you are most familiar with comein a bag.Even better, I'll show you several free ways to join the digitalelite.
Once you've followed these simple steps, Bill Gates stillmay not send you a Christmas card, but you'll gain new respect fromall those who wear propellers on their hats.Let's start at the very beginning -- that dull start-up screenon your computer.
You'll need some new wallpaper.
This kind ofwallpaper doesn't come with paste.
It's the background image onyour computer screen.
Let's replace the dull stuff Windows useswith one of your favorite photos.If you have a scanner, you can convert the photo to a digitalimage yourself.
If you don't have one, most photography places andsome office supply stores can do the conversion for just a fewdollars.
Save the image as a bitmap file (that's a file that has aBMP extension).
Then put the image file in your Windows folder.Here's what to do next.
Let's say you called your fileCECIL.BMP.
Simply right-click on the screen, go to DisplayProperties and you'll find CECIL has been added to your wallpaperchoices.
Just select it and there, big as life, is a picture of youholding that big bass you caught last year.Things are looking up now, but you still have a long way to gobefore you're truly trendy.
Now you'll need your own Web page.
Itisn't enough to cruise the Web these days, you need a home on theWeb.
Personal Web pages are important holding areas for all the badpoetry you've ever written, for the photographs no one wanted tosee from your last vacation.
You'll also want to put in links toyour favorite Web sites.
(Be careful with the last item.
You reallydon't want to put in your favorite Web sites.
Instead, use Websites that offer impossible-to-understand technical information.The more technical the Web site, the cooler you are.
)If you are rich and foolish, you can get space to park your Webpage from your current Internet provider.
But, unless free Webspace is part of your account, you can use one of the many servicesthat gives Web space away.You could take a community college class and learn to write theHTML code needed to create the Web page itself.
But, instead, let'sgo to a free site and download a program called AOL Press.
It workslike a word processor and can spit out a Web page in just minutes.Just drop in at http://www.aolpress.com/indexYou're almost cool now.
But there's one crowning touch.
Livechat is very trendy.
You can spend hours each night tellingflattering untruths about yourself to complete strangers who, inreturn, will do the same thing.But anyone can log on to one of the chat channels and meetpeople.
What you need is your very own chat room.
Hey, it's thedifference between renting and owning.
You'll be able to put a linkto it on the Web page we just built, and instead of meeting yourfriends on some public chat channel, you can meet at your place.Just go to the following Web address -- http://www.parachat.com/-- and, in just seconds, you'll get everything you need to startyour own chat service.Despite several attempts to fashion a compromise under pressurefrom the White House and Congress, law enforcement officials remaindeeply at odds with the software industry over the encryptionissue.But the Business Software Alliance, an industry trade thatsponsored the news conference, countered with a study which heldthat a government bid to curb Internet encryption would cost usersat least $7.7 billion a year and $38.5 billion over five years.The standoff led on Tuesday to a summit conference betweengovernment and industry leaders, including Attorney General JanetReno, FBI Director Louis Freeh and Thomas Constantine, head of theDrug Enforcement Administration.The trade group also released a report on the benefits ofelectronic commerce predicting that direct business-to-businesstransactions in cyberspace in 2000 would range from $66 billion to$171 billion.
By 2002, the study foresaw electronic commercereaching the $300 billion level.AIR-BAGS (Albany, N.Y.) New York's highest court has ruledthat the Toyota Motor Corp. can be held liable for injuries thatmight have been prevented by an air bag, even though air bags werenot required at the time of a 1991 accident.
Tuesday's decisionmeans auto manufacturers who adhere to all government manufacturingstandards can still be sued in New York.
By JOHN CAHER.LAREDO-PROBE (Laredo, Texas) In a bid to keep a 73-pagedocument secret, prosecutors revealed for the first time that afederal grand jury is probing allegations of criminal activityinvolving the Webb County district attorney's office.
By DANESCHILLER.SCHOOLS-POLLUTION (San Francisco) Swirling clouds ofindustrial air pollutants expose half of California's schoolchildren to chemicals known to cause cancer, respiratory illnessand other diseases, says a new study released.
By JANE KAY.SNOW-MELT (San Francisco) As El Nino relinquishes its cool,clammy grip on California, it leaves brimming reservoirs andrambunctious rivers and hints that it's not through causing troubleyet.
Most reservoirs are 96 percent or more full.
By ERIC BRAZIL.BREAST-CANCER (Schenectady, N.Y.) Most women have heard warstories about the mammogram, the first line of defense againstbreast cancer.
But for too many women, it is still the enemy, eventhough regular screenings can detect breast cancer in its earlieststages and improve the chances of recovery.
By SYLVIA WOOD.GLF-OPEN-FANS (San Francisco) Viewing the U.S. Open in personmust be like what toddlers hear their mothers yell near the candyrack in the supermarket: No!
No!
No!
No!
No!
No cheering, whoopingor hollering during play.
In fact, try not to move or even sneeze.No cameras.
No cell phones.
No beeping pagers.
By RACHEL GORDON.GLF-OPEN-MARTIN (San Francisco) The Casey Martin saga isflourishing on the sacred turf of the U.S. Open.
Martin addressedthe media about his surprising and ground-breaking presence whiletwo of the game's legends said that, with all due respect toMartin, they didn't think he should be here as long as he needed acart to get around.
By MARK FAINARU-WADA.GLF-OPEN-ELS (San Francisco) Defending U.S. Open ChampionErnie Els is one of the players trying to overcome a back injury.Sitting uncomfortably while answering questions, Els couldn't hidethe extent of his problems Tuesday.
Nor did he try.
By JEFFRICHADIHA.GLF-OPEN-MOOD (San Francisco) Titanium and muscles being whatthey are in 1998, the 288-yard seventh hole of the Olympic Club'sLake Course would seem to be but a drive and a putt away from the156 U.S. Open contestants.
But caution and patience were the rulingvalues.
By SUSAN FORNOFF.MORSE-COLUMN (San Francisco) There's not much you can sayabout taking a cold and cloudy week's vacation in San Diego (noteven that the in-laws' place in Escondido), then returning to ahot and sunny San Francisco overrun by golfers.
El Nino has tippedthe West Coast upside down.
By ROB MORSE.LYNCH-COLUMN (Mechanicville, N.Y.) This upstate New York townwas devastated by tornadoes recently.
But the Clintonadministration is dragging its feet in coughing up emergency aid.Is it possible even remotely plausible that partisan politicsis holding up help for this solidly Republican area?
By DAN LYNCH.GLOBAL-ECONOMY ( Geneva, Switzerland) In this exemplar city ofglobal finance and international organizations, a violentdemonstration erupted when people protested against the World TradeOrganization and a recent conference here attended by dozens ofworld leaders, including President Bill Clinton.
By MARCO A.MANGELSDORFLEBANON (San Pedro, Calif.) Lebanon was not even Jesus'birthplace, or Mohammad's key geographical point to conquer, nor byany means Buddha's idea of a serene place.
But in that tiny countrywhose main economy thrived once on the benevolence of open-handedtourists, religion has taken the form of a dangerous country club.By GLADYS ALAM SAROYANATLANTA -- The first delivery shown over the Internet produced ababy boy, but thousands who turned in couldn't see the birth.For those who got through, the images were abrupt they tendedto freeze and blurry at best.
Still, thousands tried to see thebirth of 7-pound, 8-ounce Sean, the fourth child of Elizabeth, a40-year-old woman who didn't want her last name used.
Cameras werediscreetly trained on Elizabeth's side and in front of her hospitalbed, but nurses backs blocked any view of the actual delivery.America's Health Network, which put the delivery on its Internetsite, said there were more than 10 million hits at the Web sitethroughout the day.
At any one minute, 5,000 viewers were able tolog onto the site.Elizabeth and the network said they wanted to help educatemothers-to-be and quell their fears.
But those who logged on maynot have gotten much of an educational experience.Among those who did not rise at the crack of dawn to followElizabeth from her 6 a.m. check-in to her delivery at 10:40 a.m.,was Christopher Rywalt, a New Jersey resident who tried to showhiswife's delivery live through the internet last year.He had arranged to show his wife's delivery over the Web, butthe hospital pulled the plug at the last minute.DAYTON, Ohio -- Xiomara Young joined the millions of people whoshopped on the Internet this year.
But she wasn't in the market fora CD, a book or a car.
She shopped for and found a job with BankOne Dayton.Indeed, Dayton-area employers increasingly are trawling theInternet for workers as a way to fish for talent in a shrinkinglabor pool.
They see it as a way to broaden their reach, inaddition to buying traditional classified ads in newspapers.Dozens of free and for-fee sites on the Net allow head huntersand job seekers alike to find each other in a way impossible just afew years ago.
Several, including JobTrak, link employers withcolleges, offering the next best thing to on-site recruiting.The Internet as job-recruiting tool takes on added significancewhen mapped against a joint University of Dayton and Wright StateUniversity study this year, which showed there are more than 48,700local jobs available in this time of near-record low unemploymentlevels.Susan Hoying, global recruitment director for NCR, offered ahard lesson for companies posting their own employment sites.
Inits haste to launch an employment page about two years ago, NCRtabbed a third party, CareerMosaic, the hottest job bank on theWeb.Moreover, the job site is not on the same computer server as therest of NCR's Web pages, meaning the company has to go throughCareerMosaic to update the listings.The Internet has brought the world's employers to home PCs.Workers can look for jobs virtually anywhere in the world, any timeof day, increasing the choices of an already mobile workforce.
Moreadvances are on the way.New software in the works will let job seekers keypunch theirdesired position, salary, location and other requirements and havetheir PCs hunt the Web for suitable jobs.
The software will alertusers when the search is done and keep the list on file.Smith, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, is usingthe layoff numbers to bolster his insistence that companiesemploying foreign workers take specific steps to protect the jobsof U.S. workers steps that companies are strenuously fighting.The companies and their trade associations said Smith is makinga connection where there is none.
Jerry Jasinowski, president ofthe National Association of Manufacturers, said the layoff numbershave little to do with a shortage of qualified U.S. technicalworkers and the companies' desire to hire the best workers, nomatter where they come from.The disagreement is the latest skirmish in what is becoming anincreasingly entrenched battle between Smith and the businesscommunity over H-1B visas, which enable highly skilled foreignworkers to hold jobs with U.S. companies for up to six years.This year's allotment of 65,000 visas ran out almost six weeksago, and companies and their would-be employees are anxious forCongress to make more visas available immediately and to boost thenumber of H-1Bs available in coming years.
The Senate has passedlegislation that would increase the visas, but the House version written by Smith is stalled because of corporate opposition tothe requirements he would impose on companies.Videva spoke Tuesday at a Capitol Hill press conferencesponsored by business and pro-immigration groups that are anxiousto see the House approve more visas.
Outside the conference,Smith's spokesman, Allen Kay, distributed the congressman's newsrelease questioning corporate layoffs.SAN FRANCISCO -- Whatever happens with today's United StatesGolf Association press conference regarding equipment, there's nolikely need to panic.
Do expect something long-term, but don'tpresume anything immediate.
The blue blazers and white caps won'tbe riding herd with the 156 participants today, ordering them toplay the first round of the U.S. Open with persimmon woods,nonperimeter weighted irons, a low-tech golf ball, plaidbell-bottoms and Ban-Lon shirts.Speculation has been rampant ever since the USGA said it wasstudying possible restrictions on the kind of high-tech, highlysuccessful equipment that has been helping amateurs and pros allover the globe come a little closer to figuring out the game ofgolf.
The USGA is concerned that technology is taking away fromtalent and that in 20 years you'll need a 750-yard par-5 to protectOld Man Par.Expecting the worst, equipment manufacturers such as ElyCallaway have been advising consumers to do everything but sleepwith their Big Bertha drivers.
It's unlikely, however, that theUSGA, on the eve of its showcase championship, would unload ablockbuster announcement to cause panic in the golf industry.In fact, despite theorizing you may have read about oversized,titanium drivers soon going the way of the T. rex, until the USGAbrass met this past weekend in San Francisco, it had not decidedprecisely what would be said at a press conference The Golf Channelwill televise live.The USGA is not expected to announce any rules changes today.More likely is the announcement of a USGA task force to study theequipment matter probably containing some people from the golfindustry, to help deflect potential legal problems.
Any futuremandates are likely to contain a reasonable grace period, probablyby 2000.
Plus, any changes would have to be discussed with Europe'sruling body, the Royal Ancient Golf Club in Scotland.High-tech equipment is, however, putting demand on courses.Augusta National, for example, announced last week significantchanges to four holes (Nos.
2, 11, 15 and 17) in an effort toreward accuracy over distance.Distance is the number one advantage high-tech equipment offers.Although oversized, long-shafted titanium drivers might mean just afew extra yards for some golfers, most pros say they gain an extra15-20 yards.
Golf balls are going farther on their own, too,although how much is up for debate.
There's no denying, however,the fact that the PGA Tour's average driving distance keeps goingup every year.And so do golf equipment sales.
Golfers spent $2.5 billion onequipment last year, which explains why Callaway and othermanufacturers are worried about even the slight hint of a ban.WASHINGTON For the first time, an energy technology called afuel cell will supply all the power to a suburban house, anothersign that fuel cells are on the verge of acceptance as aneconomical alternative to traditional energy sources.The idea of fuel cells which convert liquid fuel intoelectricity through a chemical reaction rather than combustion has been around for more than 100 years.
But until recently, fuelcells were so expensive that it was practical only for NASA'sspecialized use on space missions.
But the cells being tested noware powerful, flexible and reliable enough to work as an affordableearth-bound energy source.On Wednesday, a team of engineers will cut off the electricitythe local utility company provides to a brick ranch-style house inLatham, N.Y., and switch on a back-porch component that looks morelike a home central air-conditioning unit than the small chemicalplant it really is.Developments in the past few weeks include the first commercialsale of a fuel cell for remote power (to the New Jersey Departmentof Transportation, for a traffic warning sign) and the firststreet-ready car powered by a fuel cell (built by students atHumboldt State University in California).
And in April, Ford put$420 million into Ballard Power Systems, a fuel cell company inVancouver, B.C., in which Daimler-Benz already has a majorinvestment.Officials at the Energy Department, which is helping to pay forthe test in Latham, say they have high hopes that within a fewyears thousands of homes will be drawing electric power from fuelcells powered by natural gas or propane, cutting pollution andconsuming less fuel than conventional energy production.What has made fuel cells more practical has been improvements inthe gossamer-thin components, which look like plastic food wrap oraluminum foil, that are used to turn a basic chemical reaction the combination of oxygen and hydrogen to make water into thebasis of an energy revolution.The heart of the fuel cell being used in house in Latham andbeing studied for use in automobiles is called a proton-exchangemembrane.
When a hydrogen atom one proton and one electron ispressed against that membrane, the proton passes through and theelectron is left behind.
That creates a positive charge on one sideof the membrane and a negative charge on the other; wire themtogether, and the result is a flow of electricity.But for all the breakthroughs, fuel cells are still much tooexpensive for everyday use.
The car companies, which would probablybe the biggest users of an efficient fuel cell, say that they stillcost roughly 100 times more per horsepower than an internalcombustion engine does.
Chrysler, for example, figures that eachcar-sized fuel-cell stack it buys costs $170,000.
And runninghouses on fuel cells is substantially more expensive than relyingon power from conventional utility plants.Plug Power will not say what its prototype cost, arguing thatthe figure is about as relevant as the cost of producing the firstautomobile of a model year; it is astronomical but allows theproduction of thousands more units at lower cost.
Plug Powerpredicts that it can commercialize fuel cells for houses by 2000,at a cost of $3,000 to $5,000 each.
Detroit Edison, a part-owner ofPlug Power, plans to purchase 30,000 to 50,000 units.A New Jersey company, H-Power, also hopes for mass sales.
InMarch it made what it describes as the first ever unsubsidized,fully commercial sale of a fuel cell that will supply energy for atrailer-mounted highway sign, the kind that are commonly used towarn of construction projects along the roadway.
The company willsupply 65 of them for $759,000.NEW YORK Entering a market crowded with some of the biggestcompanies in cyberspace, The New York Times Co. said Monday that itwould introduce an Internet service about entertainment,restaurants and shopping in New York City and its suburbs.
Thesite, called New York Today, will be available, starting Tuesday,at www.nytoday.com.The service will compete with New York Sidewalk from Microsoft,Digital Cities New York from America Online and Citysearch New Yorkfrom Citisearch, a privately held company.
All the companies areseeking a share of the rich market for local advertising, whichincludes classified advertising, yellow pages listings, outdoor,broadcast and print ads.Daniel Donaghy, the general manager of New York Today, said thathe hoped that the breadth of the news and reviews about New Yorkevents written for The New York Times would distinguish the sitefrom the competition.
But Donaghy, said the company expected thatthe most important advantage would be technology that allows eachuser to customize the service to see both information andadvertising related to the user's own interests.The site is designed to look like an appointment calendar, withweather forecasts, arts events and other information listed bydate.In one unusual feature, advertisers can have their sales andother promotional events mixed in with the arts and entertainmentlistings.
Users can see a list of these sales and, if they choose,have sales for categories of their choice displayed when they firstenter the site.In addition to the calendar listings, New York Today has anumber of other close links between advertising and the site'seditorial content.
For example, a user who searches the classifiedadvertising listings of The Times for, say, condominiums inGreenwich Village will also see advertisements offering listings ofthe same type of property from several real estate brokers.That advertising will be marked as such and displayed in redtype, while editorial content will be in blue type.
Zegrahm DeepSea Voyages is offering a nine-day cruise to seethe wreckage of the Titanic, beginning August 20, for $32,000 apassenger.
Twelve passengers will set out from St. John's,Newfoundland, and ferry overnight to a research ship of the P.P.Shirshov Institute of Oceanography in Moscow, which is anchorednear the Titanic.For six days, reports Men's Journal, groups including twopassengers and one leader will descend in MIR submersibles ineight-hour dives to see the wreckage of the Titanic.
The 100 presenters and participants in Academy Awardsceremonies, targeted by an array of purveyors wanting to call theirattention to their products, each received a gift basket weighing57 pounds, says Luxe magazine.Absolut vodka, Bulgari's fragrance, a Christofle silver lettertray, Frederic Fekkai day of beauty, Harry Winston sterlingcompass, a JBL stereo CD system, a Montblanc fountain pen,Ferragamo silk scarf and Tag Heuer chronograph watch.
Sara Hamlen reports that the 18-year-old triplets workingtogether for the summer at Grace Baking on Solano Avenue in Oaklandare named Veni , Vidi and Vici Jumana .
They start City Collegein San Francisco this fall.
Paul McCartney , Ringo Starr and George Harrison , havinglifted their voices together at Linda McCartney's funeral service,are talking about putting out an album perhaps with Elton John and Sting to benefit animal rights, reports the NewYork Post.
Zegrahm DeepSea Voyages is offering a nine-day cruise to seethe wreckage of the Titanic, beginning August 20, for $32,000 apassenger.
Twelve passengers will set out from St. John's,Newfoundland, and ferry overnight to a research ship of the P.P.Shirshov Institute of Oceanography in Moscow, which is anchorednear the Titanic.For six days, reports Men's Journal, groups including twopassengers and one leader will descend in MIR submersibles ineight-hour dives to see the wreckage of the Titanic.
The 100 presenters and participants in Academy Awardsceremonies, targeted by an array of purveyors wanting to call theirattention to their products, each received a gift basket weighing57 pounds, says Luxe magazine.Absolut vodka, Bulgari's fragrance, a Christofle silver lettertray, Frederic Fekkai day of beauty, Harry Winston sterlingcompass, a JBL stereo CD system, a Montblanc fountain pen,Ferragamo silk scarf and Tag Heuer chronograph watch.
Sara Hamlen reports that the 18-year-old triplets workingtogether for the summer at Grace Baking on Solano Avenue in Oaklandare named Veni , Vidi and Vici Jumana .
They start City Collegein San Francisco this fall.
Paul McCartney , Ringo Starr and George Harrison , havinglifted their voices together at Linda McCartney's funeral service,are talking about putting out an album perhaps with Elton John and Sting to benefit animal rights, reports the NewYork Post.PARIS Western governments have been unanimous in demandingthat Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto initiate sweepingreforms designed to rescue his country's critically sagging economybefore it drags down the rest of the world.But the problem is that Hashimoto, like most of hispredecessors, lacks both the authority and prestige even tocontemplate such a task.Hashimoto is, in reality, a minor personage, chosen as afigurehead leader precisely because his political clout is all butnonexistent.That is how most post-World War II Tokyo governments haveoperated: The real power brokers behind the scenes nominate strawmen to head the government because they're expendable and offerlittle prospect of interfering with the authentic policymakers, whohave usually been potent and unassailable bureaucrats, invisible tothe public.For most of the past half-century, the Liberal Democratic Partyhas officially monopolized power.
However, the LDP is itselfdivided into numerous factions, warring against one another andeach allied to a different group of bureaucrats.
Hashimoto is ajunior member of one of these factions.
His status stems from hisranking within the party and not from the fact that he is thecurrent prime minister.American and other worried Western officials have agreed forsome time that Japan's pressing need is to stimulate domesticdemand for goods and services.
Japanese consumers have zipped uptheir wallets and aren't buying partly because of their lack ofconfidence in their rulers, exacerbated now by the sinking yen.But increasing consumer demand would mean lowering taxes andrelaxing monopoly conditions, which have kept prices and profitmargins much higher than in many other countries.
But clamping downon monopolies is strongly opposed by powerful bureaucrats in thefinance ministry, the ministry of industry and elsewhere.Anderson, of course, comes off pretty no-nonsense herself.
If itweren't a part of her personality, she couldn't pull off thatspecial panache brainy, skeptical, stone-facedly self-controlled that makes FBI agent Dana Scully one of television's mostfascinating and groundbreaking characters.But you can also detect contradictions and banked fires in the29-year-old actress.
Given the right stimulus, a wild side couldemerge, something Scully might deem as alien as a sewer-dwellinghuman tapeworm.Now add to the list of Anderson's burgeoning responsibilitiesthat of movie star.
But even that has more riding on it than youraverage TV actor's initial forays into the costlier, higher-stakesrealm of feature films.In the movie, Scully and Duchovny's Fox Mulder have beenreassigned to an anti-terrorist unit following the destruction ofthe X-Files in last season's closing episode of the show.
But thatdoesn't stop them from getting involved in another alarmingoperation rife with alien colonizers and their apparent allies, theinternational Syndicate of rich, powerful, ruthless and mysteriousmen.Ranging from a bombed-out building in Dallas to a bizarreexperimental facility beneath the Antarctic snowpack to FBI hearingrooms in Washington where, as usual, Mulder and Scully have a lotof explaining to do, the movie indeed delivers its share of summerentertainment excitement.
But the scene that may excite X-Philesmost involves a close encounter between Scully and Mulder in hisapartment building's hallway.She was also a complete punk at the time black clothes, Mohawkhairdo, a piercing here and there and that decidedlyun-Scully-like presentation attitude traveled with her to L.A.Though praised now for the exponential improvement in her fashiontaste over the last couple of years, initially Anderson was hardlya casting director's dream.At least Gillian Anderson has some.
Which brings us back to thesubject of Scully and whether the poor gal ever has any fun.It is Saturday morning, 6:30 a.m., and a faint light isbeginning to creep through the blinds of the master bedroom wheretwo figures are sleeping peacefully in their queen-sized bed.Suddenly, they hear the creaking of a door hinge.One of the figures in the bed stirs, turning over onto his back.This is Adam, who, somewhere in his confused semi-consciousness,feels a weight on his body and then his head.By the time he's had his morning coffee, that attitude has begunto improve.
And by midafternoon the time he usually takes his sonto the park he feels quite good about himself and the decisionhe's made.The rapid increase of middle-aged fathers and the growing and,many would say, inappropriate interest in fathering relativelylate in a man's life are mainly the result of delayed childbearingby many professional women and the rise in the divorce rate.
Andtechnology has made it much more possible today for older women and their older husbands to have children even if the wife is notsignificantly younger than the husband.It all sounds like fun older men finding new meaning in lifeand women attaining professional success first and then havingfamilies, too.But not everyone agrees that it is such a good thing.
Those whoobject see older parents as acting selfishly, against the interestof the children they choose to parent.
They do not find thegrayheads with preschoolers cute.
For many Americans, middle-agedparents are just one more symbol of the decay of traditional valuesand the growing selfishness that puts misplaced self-satisfactionahead of the greater social good.
THE GREAT MORAL DEBATE Steve and others who are fathering second families tend to talka lot about the difference in feelings and commitment they havethis second time around.
Fathers in their late 40s, 50s and beyondtend to value children as much as their work, and often more.
Theyseem to spend more time with their children than younger fathers.Some have retired from the working world completely and take onroles as stay-at-home parents while their younger wives go tofull-time jobs.But with all the intensity of later fatherhood, the new role isnot easy.
The self-indulgence of late middle age bumps against theenergies of a new life demanding attention.
Even if an older fathermay not be as concerned with competing at work, and much moreconcerned with discovering his emotions, he often wants to focus onhimself, his wife, his children from an earlier marriage or hisgrandchildren all of which can be tough competition against theneeds of his still-young child.One older father, Larry, was talking to the wife of an oldfriend when the conversation turned abruptly to older parents.
Thewoman was obviously disturbed by the notion that Larry and othermen her husband's age are fathering young children.Today, if a man reaches 50, he will, on average, live past 80.True, there is still a good chance that, if he is an older father,his child will lose him in his or her 20s, at a time when manychildren are still emotionally and financially dependent on theirfathers.
But there is an even better chance that the father will bethere for the child's wedding and the grandchildren.When we ask Larry about this conundrum, he is still not surewhat the right answer is.
But he does feel that he has probablyspent a lot more time thinking about parenting than younger parentsdo certainly more than when he had fathered his first child atthe age of 27.For now, Larry seems to have settled, at least in his own mind,that he is doing the right thing.
(Martin Carnoy is a professor of education and economics atStanford University.
His son Martin is an editor at Successmagazine.)
---------------------------------------------- Like Johnson, more fathers today are making a connection betweentheir work life and their family life.
Nearly 70 percent of workingmen say that family is just as important as their job, or moreimportant, according to a national Roper Organization survey.
As aresult, many working dads are struggling to find the balance thatwas once thought to be only a mother's problem.So in these times, it's no longer enough to simply ask whether aworking mother hurts her kids by being away from them most of theday.
We now also need to address the brand-new question: What arethe consequences for families and businesses when fathers work?For years, it's been a fact of life that dads' jobs typicallytake them away from their children for more than eight hours a day.It's been through their work, through being good economicproviders, that fathers have established their very identities andtaken care of their families.So it never occurred to families or employers that businessshould do anything aside from providing a paycheck to supportmen as fathers.
After all, why would it matter?
Weren't work andfamily separate worlds?The answer seems to be a resounding no.
Over the past twodecades, a new wave of research on child and family development,which had previously focused nearly exclusively on mothers, hasbegun to document the vital role that fathers play in theirchildren's lives.
This has led to a revolutionary understanding ofworking dads: A man's dual roles as father and worker have anenormous impact on each other.
HOW WORK AFFECTS FAMILY Friedman and Jeffrey Greenhaus, professor of management atDrexel University in Philadelphia, found that children ages 4 to 17whose fathers say they are satisfied with their work exhibit fewerbehavioral problems such as shyness, withdrawal and aggressiveness.And for girls, feeling competent in math is linked to a closeand warm relationship with their fathers, according to studies atthe University of Michigan School of Social Work in Ann Arbor.+ How a boss treats a father can affect how a father treats hiskids.Indianapolis-based art director Jeff Lovell, who has custody ofhis three children, often has to come in late to work for familyreasons.
Fortunately, he has a supportive boss.And that kind of autonomy on the job leads to higher self-esteemfor a dad, according to researcher Karen Grimm-Thomas ofPennsylvania State University in University Park.Do businesses value a man for being a good dad and show it intheir policies?Not as often as dads would like.
Flextime is rarely an option.Paternity leave is rarely paid.
And since men typically continue toearn more than women, it is usually not financially feasible for afather to take an unpaid leave even if a company offers it.But good managers are at least beginning to recognize theinterdependence of work and family.At Corning Inc. in Corning, N.Y., manager Ed O'Brien lets hisemployees define their own schedules.
And he values the expertisegood parents bring with them to work.Indeed, a father who just returned to his job as a purchasingagent after taking paternity leave says that caring for his4-month-old has given him a whole new way of listening to people.How can you ease your own work-and-family juggling act,especially when you may not have the most enlightened of bosses?Here are some strategies.Think your bosses will never allow any adjustment in workschedule, or that they'd interpret a family obligation as a lack ofcommitment to the job?
If so, you might actually cheat yourself ofwhat you need.The moral of the story: If you don't ask for what you need, youwon't get it.Your boss doesn't have to hear every detail of a family problem.He or she just needs to be convinced that, in an emergency, youhave a plan for getting your work done, such as doing it at home orhaving a colleague cover for you.As downsizing leads to bigger workloads, it's increasinglyimportant to know how to turn down work that might compromise yourfamily's needs.If you're having work/family problems, it's likely that yourfellow employees are, too.
Chris Colbern, who supervises payrollservices at Cigna, a Philadelphia-based insurance company, gathereda group of co-workers together to look at how other companies hadimplemented flextime.
The result: a new Cigna scheduling systemthat virtually all employees prefer.It may not yet be the law of the land, but a member of thenation's highest court is recognizing dads' family needs.
In 1994,shortly after her appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court, JusticeRuth Bader Ginsburg was asked why she agreed to a flexible schedulefor law clerk David Post, who was attending Georgetown Universityat night.
His wife, an economist, had a demanding job, so Postneeded to care for their children during part of each day.For more than 40 years, I have walked the fairways of the worldbehind the game's greatest artists, playing in the most famouschampionships on the planet's most storied courses.To me, it has principally been the result of the sterlingcareers of certain players, and not Arnold Palmer alone.
I'll beaudacious enough now to list my top 10 players, whose achievementsI have described on ABC and CBS during the past 40 years.
The McKay Ratings Tack on a total of 70 wins on the PGA Tour, two Walker Cupteams, six Ryder Cup teams (twice captain), two U.S. Senior Opentitles and a Senior PGA.
He intimidated his peers like no one sinceBobby Jones.His toughest loss came at Pebble Beach in the 1982 U.S. Open.
Atthe age of 42, he had finished his final round of the championshipand was standing beside the scorer's tent waiting to be interviewedas the first player ever to win five U.S.
Opens, if Tom Watsonbogied either of the last two holes.
And Watson was in trouble, hisball sitting in long grass behind the green of the par three 17th.From our tower at 18, I looked down on Nicklaus.
He was staringat a monitor showing Watson lining up his shot.
From the difficultlie, it might well run far across the green, leaving him a likelybogie and setting up victory for Jack.To understand Arnold Palmer and his endless appeal to Everyman,it helps to sit with him as I did at the home (in Latrobe, Pa.) heand his wife, Winnie, have lived in for more than 35 years andunderstand that he IS Everyman.He still loves to sit by the pool, looking down toward thecourse he grew up on, just at the bottom of the hill.
That day somefour or five years ago, he smiled and told me how he used to lieoutside his family's house on the edge of the course and wait forthe woman to come by the sixth hole--the woman who always gave hima nickel if he would hit her ball over the water hazard for her.I once asked Arnold Palmer how he has kept such a hold on hisfans.
He looked at me, a faint smile on his face.My most vivid memory of Trevino in his heyday is at the 1972British Open on the Muirfield links in Scotland.It could have been the pro-am preceding the Quad Cities Open asfar as his attitude was concerned.
He kept up a runningconversation, or more properly a monologue, with the Scottishgallery all the way around.Then he laughed and knocked his tee shot in his usualleft-to-right arc into the middle of the fairway.Of his remarkable five British Open victories, four of them werewon by a single shot, one in a playoff.If Nicklaus was the greatest and Palmer the most charismatic ofchampionship golfers, certainly Tom Watson, as he plays on in hislate 40s, still convinced that he will win another major, is themost tenacious.In July of 1954, at the age of 18, Gary Player stepped off atrain at a small town in Scotland, carrying a cardboard suitcaseheld together with a piece of rope.
Since that day, he has becomethe world's most traveled athlete, flying around the globe yearafter year, winning the national championships of the UnitedStates, Great Britain, Australia, Chile, and Brazil, among others.I feel uncomfortable not placing Greg Norman in my top bracket.Today, he is probably the best-known golfer in the world, havingwon 55 tournaments internationally, as well as 16 on the Americantour.Every great player has performances he would rather forget, butGreg's have come in the spotlight of major championships and havecome in such dramatic fashion that they dominate his image, despiteall his achievements.What happened?
No one knows, although some theorists blameimperfections in his swing, others the explosive nature of hischaracter.
But it seems to be over for Seve at age 40, unless hecan pull some middle-aged miracles as he creeps toward 50 and theSenior Tour.
His impact on the game remains, however.It was his play that forced expansion of the Ryder Cup matchesfrom the U.S. versus Great Britain and Ireland to the U.S. versusall of Europe.
As a result, the matches,have become an increasinglycompetitive and major event.He has not yet joined the pantheon of the game, partly becauseof his rather phlegmatic personality and, in the minds of somepeople, because of his reliance on a golfing guru named DavidLeadbetter, who completely rebuilt Nick's swing and follows himaround the course and to the practice tee as if Faldo were still astudent, not a champion.How's this for career longevity?
He was only 18 when he turnedpro 35 years ago.
Now, as he nears his mid-50s, he is still winningon the Senior Tour and occasionally returning to the regular tourto instruct his juniors by example on how to play the game withskill and dignity.10.
To round out my top 10, I'll have to resort to that old cop-out, a tie.
In this case, a three way tie, among Ben Crenshaw, TomKite and Hale Irwin.All three of the world's famous championships were won in '97 bymen in their 20s; Woods, 21, the Masters; Els, 27, the U.S. Open;and Leonard, 25, the British Open.
Might one of them be the newNicklaus or Palmer?
Possibly.But as far as ranking any of them, I can only echo the commentmade long ago by Red Smith.
After Willie Mays had turned in hissecond great season in the majors, someone asked Red if he thoughtMays was as good as Joe DiMaggio.The hostility toward Deborah Eappen surprised Caryl Rivers, aBoston University professor and author of a new book on two-careerfamilies.
It seemed to suggest that, counter to some of Rivers'research, society wasn't so comfortable with working mothers afterall.Blame fell on Deborah Eappen not simply for being at work whenher baby had to be rushed to the hospital but for allegedlyexploiting Woodward, who was paid $115 to work 45 hours per week,even though the Eappens had the added expense of Woodward's traveland agency fees.When, at trial, Woodward's legal team got a neurosurgeon toadmit that serum leaked from eight-month old Matthew Eappen's wound a sign that the injury might have occurred long before he lapsedinto a coma many of Woodward's defenders blamed the Eappens foraccusing a working-class girl from economically faltering Elton,England.In the offices and living rooms of Massachusetts, some peopletook sides on the merits of the case, with their sentiments fallingalong class lines.
Cocktail parties hummed with disgust over theway Woodward's defenders were casting blame on a working mother.Bars thundered with anger over Reilly's hubris in charging the girlwith anything at all.When Woodward, looking every inch the apple-cheeked schoolgirl,took the stand to deny hurting Matthew Eappen, she won over hercountrymen.
But many wondered: Would her stiff upper lip, whichimpressed folks back home as a show of fortitude, come off as coldto a jury in the more emotive US?Any notion that Woodward lacked emotions evaporated the nightbefore Halloween, when she screamed and nearly collapsed after thejury, revealing its decision in mid-evening, declared her guilty ofmurder in the second degree.Many observers believed Scheck had done a pretty good jobraising questions about whether the baby had died of a freshinjury, as prosecutors insisted.
The prosecution was hardlyconfident of a murder conviction.
Reilly's assistants offered togive the jury the option of finding Woodward guilty ofmanslaughter.
The defense, sensing an acquittal, refused.After the jury convicted Woodward of second-degree murder, witha minimum sentence of 15 years in prison, Scheck, Silverglate andfellow defender Andrew Good met the media with the washed-out,almost tearful faces of a baseball team having just lost the WorldSeries.
They accepted responsibility for the failure to allow thejury to consider manslaughter, and insisted that Woodward shouldnot be made to pay for their error.Enter Judge Hiller B. Zobel, the veteran jurist known for hiswillingness to go against convention.
Eleven days after the juryannounced its decision, Zobel exercised a seldom-invoked judicialprerogative to reduce Woodward's conviction to manslaughter, and tolimit her sentence to time served.Did the widespread media coverage of public sympathy forWoodward embolden Zobel to take such an unusual step?
If so, thatby itself suggests that television is influencing the rendering ofjustice.In terms of better training for those who care for children,yes.
Philip Johnson, president of EF Au Pair, says the casetransformed his business, which oversees 4,000 foreigners workingin American homes.
Standards are tougher: All au pairs now undergopersonality tests, and must document 200 hours of infant care.Training now includes eight hours of instruction in coping withchildren under age 2.
The Massachusetts Legislature is consideringa bill to raise the weekly stipend for au pairs to $187.
Still, thenumber of British girls seeking placements plunged by about a half.There is some indication that, after viewers digest anespecially filling case, reason supersedes emotion.
InMassachusetts, Woodward served as one bookend to another hugelypublicized case, the murder of Jeffrey Curley, the Cambridge boylured by his killers with the promise of a bicycle.If the Curley case persuaded some skeptics that there are, infact, crimes so heinous as to justify the death penalty, theWoodward trial, which knocked Curley off the front page, argued inreturn that life-and-death decisions ought not be entrusted to thelegal system.Brides and grooms get so much advice most of it wrong thatthey panic.
It's like having a baby: As soon as people find outyou're expecting a wedding, they feel free to tell you what to doand give dire warnings about being improper i.e., tacky.Well, worry no more.
Here are the Top Ten Marriage Myths andthe right answers, no matter what anyone says.
Folks will swearthese myths are the eternal Etiquette Truth etched in stone andhanded down by some Etiquette God.
Well, they aren't.Although it is customary to ask brothers and sisters to beattendants, the bride and groom are free to ask whomever they wish best friends, pals from the office, a buddy from a favorite bar.But beware: This could be deadly.
Friends come and go, whileyour families are there forever.
You avoid a lot of hurt feelingsby asking brothers and sisters.Being given away is a tradition that evolved from the days whenmen bought brides from their fathers or, even worse, captured them.Today many young women feel this custom is archaic.
Somehow it wascharming when a woman went from her father's home directly to hernew husband's, but that's not true of most couples today.If you don't want it, leave it out of the ceremony.
And if youchoose, walk down the aisle by yourself.
Not every bride has afather, nor does every bride like her father.
Some brides say goingsolo made them feel like royalty.3.
The bride's father must sit in the first pew with the bride'smother, even if they hate the sight of each other.In a perfect world, divorced mothers and fathers would overcometheir loathing so all could be sweetness and light on their child'swedding day.Let's get real.
Divorce is a 1990s fact of life.
When divorcedparents get along, it's wonderful.
Mom and Dad can sit together,one big happy parental unit on the first pew.This changes if stepparents are in the picture.
Mom and hernew husband should sit in the first pew.
Dad and his new wife should sit in the next pew.If they do not get along, Dad and his new wife should sit evenfarther back in the church far enough away to avoid bodily harm.
(All of this goes for the groom's parents, too.
)So who's counting?
Unlike many other areas of modern life, thereis no rule that says a wedding party must have equality.An equal number of men and women makes a pretty picture at thealtar and makes life easier for the wedding consultant but thisis not mandatory.
You can have all men, all women even allchildren if you like.If a father can be a best man, there is no reason a mother can'tbe matron of honor.
It's a beautiful, loving gesture.The only drawback is if the wedding is a very large one.
Themother of the bride and the matron of honor each may have so manyduties that it could be a burden to ask your mom to undertake bothjobs.But if a bride's mom is extremely organized and is her bestfriend, she should ask her.If a father can escort his daughter, there is no reason a mothercan't.
More and more brides are asking their moms to make thestroll down the aisle instead of bench-warming the first pew.
Thiscustom is borrowed from Jewish ceremonies, where both parentsescort the bride and groom.The littler they are, the cuter they are and the more they candisrupt your ceremony!
The same goes for ring bearers.Flower girls have refused to go down the aisle or toss theirpetals.
One little ring bearer grabbed the flower girl's basket,dumped the petals in a pile and began jumping on it.The only criterion for the job of flower girl or ring bearershould be how important a child is to you.
If the little girl orlittle boy is someone you want to include, by all means do it, nomatter how old or young the child is.No, the only requirement for being an attendant is a sincereattachment to the bride or groom and the ability to pay for theclothing.I know of brides in their 20s who had bridesmaids in their 60s,and the weddings were full of love and rejoicing.It is a mystery to me why it is considered poor manners to havea pregnant woman participate in a ceremony so full of fertilitysymbols.Traditionally, bridesmaids were young women who surrounded thebride to confuse any evil spirits lurking about.
Perhaps abridesmaid had to be fleet-footed, and it's hard to run when youare pregnant.I see no problems with asking a friend who is with child, otherthan logistical ones: She may have trouble fitting into her dress,and she may feel uncomfortable standing for long periods of time.10.
There can be only one maid of honor and one matron of honor.A bride may have two of either if she wishes.
And she doesn'thave to limit herself to women.And if either of your parents nudges you about wantinggrandchildren one more time ...To be sure, the line between amicability and all-out war can bethin where in-laws are concerned.
With practice, though, expertssay, you can learn to get along ... and the sooner the better.Intruding in-laws are a mainstay on the marital trouble list,says Marlene Watson, a couples-and-family therapist inPhiladelphia.Typically, she explains, one partner may feel that an in-law isinterfering and his or her spouse is not doing anything about it.Then, to make matters worse, the spouse feels he or she is beingattacked by the partner and pressured by one or both sets ofparents.The key to riding out most in-law conflicts is to act as aunited couple, Watson says.
Both partners need to set up boundariesand communicate them to the in-laws.
This could mean asking yourmother not to call before 9:30 a.m. on weekends or telling yourfather-in-law that your financial affairs are a private matter.Yet many of these differences are arbitrary and not reallyimportant, says Michael Ascher, a psychologist and professor ofpsychiatry at Temple University School of Medicine.
For instance,he says, while a new bride may disapprove of her in-laws'predinner-cocktail ritual, she can learn to accept that it isn'ttantamount to alcoholism.In-law tensions may erupt as soon as the couple announces theengagement.
Parents may feel abandoned and experience anxiety aboutthe impending separation.
There may be discomfort aboutacknowledging their child's sexuality.
They may fear adversechanges in the family structure.
Or differences in the newson-in-law or daughter-in-law may be perceived as a threat orrejection of their own values.Particularly if the bride is older than her husband, his mothermay feel that her daughter-in-law is trying to usurp her role.
Or anew wife may become anxious that the undesirable qualities sheobserves in her new father-in-law will be transferred to his son.And don't overlook potential sibling-in-law problems, Watson says.Before you meet your in-laws, have your fiance brief you abouttheir likes, dislikes and sensitivities.
The added knowledge willreduce the risk of your offending them and enable you to askquestions that engage their interest.
POTENTIAL SORE SPOTS If a couple pays for all the arrangements, they may have thingsexactly as they wish, Watson says.
If parents are financing theaffair, though, the couple should be prepared to compromise.This year, the couple announced they were alternating: Theywould spend Thanksgiving and Christmas Day with her family, andChristmas Eve and Easter with his folks.Another time when both had sisters celebrating birthdays on thesame day, the couple simply agreed to split up so each could attendhis or her own family's party.The experts agree that it is wise to deal with your own parentsabout sensitive issues such as financial requests or choosing babynames, especially early in the marriage.
Not only do you know yourparents' quirks, but any resulting anger and annoyance is morelikely to be forgiven and forgotten with you than with your spouse,Ascher says.Once you know your in-laws better, try to handle disagreementsyourself without putting your spouse in the middle.
Find a tactfulway to ask that your mother-in-law call before dropping in.
Orstate firmly that family-planning decisions are between you andyour husband.Asking parents for money can set the stage for disputes abouthow the gift is used and how you're living your life.If one of your parents is making derogatory statements aboutyour spouse, your first priority is to your husband or wife.
Aparent should be told that he or she doesn't have to love yourspouse, but must respect your choice.Don't tolerate your spouse criticizing your parents, and don'tlet your in-laws play you against your spouse.Even if your family ignores your spouse in conversations andactivities, continue to include him or her in important events anddiscussions.
Maintain a separate relationship with your parents,too, such as having lunch sometimes, Watson recommends.The two women corresponded for about a year.
Sexton gossipedabout the other patients in the seminar, and enjoyed sharingconfidences with her young acolyte.
When Plunkett announced thatshe had left her psychiatrist because he had divorced his wife andrefused to embark on an affair with her, Sexton no stranger tothe temptations of the therapist's couch reacted knowingly:Sexton offered heartfelt congratulations when Plunkett publishedpoems in the Hudson Review and the American Scholar during theseminar.
And she didn't hesitate to criticize Plunkett's work morefirmly than that of the other patients'.
Upon receiving one batchof Plunkett's poems, Sexton wrote her:That was the summer of the moon landing, and Plunkett sentSexton a poem about the event.
In her last letter to her formerstudent, Sexton wrote:In the fall of 1968, the poet Anne Sexton received an unexpectedinvitation.
An administrator at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass.inquired if she might want to teach a weekly seminar for patientsthere.Sexton accepted the invitation.
The McLean seminar lasted fromthe fall of 1968 until the spring of 1969.
Between 15 and 25patients attended, irregularly, depending on their mental states.Several hundred of the poems the patients wrote for the seminar arestored in the Anne Sexton archive at the Ransom Center for theHumanities at the University of Texas, where Sexton's daughter andliterary executor, Linda Gray Sexton, granted me permission to readthem.
And, for the first time, several patients or relatives ofdeceased patients have agreed to discuss the seminar and its impacton their lives.The call came in September of 1968, in a note from MargaretBall, the patients' librarian at McLean:That the call came from McLean weighed heavily on Sexton's mind.Sexton had always wanted to be a patient at McLean, but in her ownview, had never made the grade.
McLean, a Harvard teachinghospital, attracted well-to-do patients from all over the country.
Bentley College volleyball standout Heidi Anderson had nointerest in waking up mornings and finding patches of her longblond hair a victim of the chemotherapy that was so necessary andso devastating clumped on the pillow.She had no interest in dilly-dallying around about the wholething OK, maybe didn't quite realize the mess she was in andurged the doctors to open her chest and insert that tube so shecould waste no time in getting her treatments and getting down tothe business of getting better.The other day Heidi Anderson, Bentley graduate and leukemiasurvivor, was out dress shopping for something to wear this weekendfor a dinner in Marco Island, Fla., where she will be honored asthe winner of the Honda Inspiration Award, presented each year to acollegiate woman athlete who has overcome great physical adversity.Her once straight blond hair grew back darker and more curly andis long and she plans on growing it longer.
She is two and a halfyears out from the bone marrow transplant she received after itbecame clear the chemotherapy wasn't going to take care of herleukemia.
She has heard that some doctors say that three years outand you're considered cured, others that it's five years.
And eventhen they hedge and say you're 98 percent cured.Numbers in the past couple of years have been more about beatingthe odds the chance of survival was 30 percent originally, 30percent again in the bone marrow transplant, but then there was achance of surviving the transplant and coming out of it with someother ailment than they have been about the numbers that used tomatter.
The number of kills she had as an outside hitter, thenumber of service aces, the scores of games took a back seat.She is living life the way she intended before leukemiainterrupted it for a year and a half.
She graduated from Bentleylast month and in August starts her training with the MarriottCorporation as an assistant controller.
Her boyfriend, Matt Genest,the one who cut her hair, the one she met on the first day freshmenreported to Bentley, the one she borrowed the Berwick Academybaseball cap from to cover her bald head also missed a year and ahalf of school.He moved in with her family in Jamul, Calif. to help when shewas sick.
They both doubled up on courses to actually get out aheadof schedule, considering the time they missed, and both graduatedwith honors.She was a key member of the Bentley volleyball last fall, waselected captain by players who barely knew her and helped the teamto a semifinal finish in the Northeast 10 Conference, ironicallythe same place they ended up days before her cancer ordeal began.Anderson made the All Conference team as a freshman and helpedher team to the NCAA Northeast Regionals.
She came back the nextseason and coach Sandy Hoffmann asked her to be more of a teamleader.
She was.But as the season went on her joints ached more and more and shebecame more and more sick.
Doctors thought she might have a virusand had her sit out late in the season.
She talked her way intoplaying in the conference tournament.Monday, the doctor called and said she wanted Anderson to havemore tests with a specialist at Beth Israel Deaconess MedicalCenter.They borrowed a car and Genest drove her to the hospital thatevening.
Later that night she was told she had leukemia, herparents and younger sister flew in from California and soon she hadno hair, had a tube in her chest, wouldn't leave the hospital forweeks and would be in treatment for months.There were tough times ahead, though Anderson feels lucky shedidn't get nearly as sick in treatment as many people do.
She hasbeen told she will not be able to have children.There was the projected two years of chemotherapy in sevenphases and there was getting to the end of the fifth phase andbeing told that the chemotherapy had been suppressed but not wipedout and she needed the bone marrow transplant.Both her sisters were a perfect match for a transplant and shereceived her bone marrow from her older sister, Julia.The transplant was a success and she got back to school in thefall of 1996 and tried to get back to volleyball but was not yetphysically able.
That was tough.
So she served as kind of anassistant coach.She kept working on her strength and conditioning and last fallwas ready to go.
Still, there were drawbacks.
She did not have herold leaping ability so was better suited for defensive work in theback lines than up front.Anderson had no doubts.
She was determined to do so as she spenther time in the hospital and charted her own medications andtreatments.
As the cards and letters and jerseys from players atHarvard and Alaska and dozens of other teams and players she hadcome in contact with poured in.
As she planned with doctors including Dr. Robin Joyce at Beth Israel who her mother, Pat, ravesabout her return to Bentley and volleyball.She turned 23 last Sunday and this Sunday evening in Florida,Honda will recognize the way she came back.TRIBUNAL (Rome) Seeking to limit the scope of an internationalcriminal court, The United States dismisses United Nations effortsto create a fully independent prosecutor as `unrealistic andunwise.` By Alessandra Stanley.AIDS-IMMUNE (Undated) Scientists have visualized the preciseinteractions between the AIDS virus and a human cell at the momentof infection.
The ultra-fine snapshot shows how the virus's probechanges form as it snags, one after the other, its two targets onthe human cell's surface.
The new information lays the basis fordesigning new drugs and vaccines that strike at the virus duringits one moment of vulnerability, its change of shape while it movesfrom its first to its second target.
By Nicholas Wade.BASEBALL-HEART (Boston) It's a rare but fatal danger in theworld of sports: A young athlete receives a sharp but fairly mildblow on the chest, then collapses and dies.
Researchers using pigsto investigate this phenomenon, commotio cordis, have found thatthere is a 15-millisecond period in the normal cardiac cycle wherea baseball thrown at 30 miles an hour can cause dangerousventricular fibrillation.
By Philip J. Hilts.DOLLAR-YEN (Washington) The Fed and the Bank of Japan stage asurprise attack on the strong dollar, intervening in theforeign-exchange market to sell the American currency and buy yen.At midday, the dollar stood at 138.12 yen, well below its level of143.47 yen in late New York trading Tuesday.
Stocks rose on thenews, and Treasury bonds fell sharply.
By David E. Sanger.PRUDENTIAL-RESTRUCTURE (Undated) After paying heavy fines andsettlement costs arising from widespread accusations that itcheated its customers, Prudential Life Insurance is now steeringthrough the New Jersey legislature a corporate restructuring planthat consumer advocates say contains troubling loopholes.
By JosephB.
Treaster.AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER A list of stories being considered byNew York Times editors for Page 1 will move at about 4:30 p.m. ET.AM-FRONPAGE-NYT A description of the frontpage layout of thefirst edition of The New York Times will move about 7:30 p.m. ET.Like it or not, you're all linked now.
You are historical soulbrothers.
You are representatives of the two greatest dynasties inworld basketball history, and from this moment on, it will beimpossible to discuss one without mentioning the other.
What youhave accomplished is in the books, subject to perusal as long asthey play this sport on this planet.The Boston Celtics once won 11 championships in 13 seasons.
Therun began on Saturday, April 13, 1957, in Boston Garden with astirring 125-123 double-overtime victory over the St. Louis Hawks,and it ended Monday, May 5, 1969, in the Fabulous Forum with anupset 108-106 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers.
There was oneplaying link between Title No.
1 and Title No.
11 Bill Russell.The Chicago Bulls have won six championships in the last eightseasons.
Their run began Wednesday, June 12, 1991, in the GreatWestern Forum with a 108-101 win over the Los Angeles Lakers and itwas expanded Sunday, June 14, 1998, in the Delta Center with an87-86 win over the Utah Jazz.
There have been two playing links Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen.The Bulls have absolutely no idea what life was like inRussell's time.
The Bulls have never taken an overnight train.
Theydon't scrunch themselves into cabs.
They don't change planes.
Theydon't stay two to a room in second-rate hotels with laughably smallmeal money.The Bulls, like most NBA clubs, are a team of millionaires.
TheCeltics worried about lining up offseason jobs.The Bulls have a palatial locker room and their own practicefacility.
The Celtics used to dress in a slanted locker room in theold, old Garden in which the tall guys stood at the top of the roofslant and the small guys dressed at the bottom.
Lockers?
How aboutnails?
They practiced in such places as the Cambridge YMCA andTobin Gym after begging for the time.All these differences make it far easier for the Bulls to playat their best.
The flip side is that the old Celtics had far fewerdistractions.
They never had off-day press conferences.
They had noendorsement deals.
They were inherently hungrier and more dedicatedbecause, well, just because.
So it was easier for them to focus onthe task at hand.There are many ways of evaluating the differences between theRussell Celtics and the Jordan Bulls.
Here are a few:In order to win his first nine titles, Russell and his mates hadto play two series a year.
Win eight games and you're a champ.
Inorder to win their six, Michael and Scottie have had to win fourseries annually.
They need to win almost twice as many games (15)in order to get their rings.It stands to reason that the more games you play, the more perilexists.
Just because you're supposed to win doesn't mean you'regoing to.Russell began play in an eight-team league.
The best 80basketball players in the world were concentrated on those teams.Even the worst teams had, in the context, very good players inreserve.
When he won championship No.
11, the NBA still had only 14teams.The Bulls' championship run began seven years ago in a 27-teamleague.
It's now up to 29.
Almost no one has a decent bench.Centers are scarce.
The talent is pathetically dispersed, and someof the best players choose to stay in Europe.Only Houston hardheads would deny that the Rockets won a pair ofchampionships (1994, 1995) that would have been Chicago's hadJordan not taken his famous sabbatical.Fine.
But does anyone outside St. Louis believe the Hawks wouldhave won in 1958 if Russell had not injured his ankle?
Twelve outof 13 sounds pretty impressive.We respect the Russell Celtics because they knew how to win theso-called Big Game.
Russell played in 11 winner-take-all games, 10seventh games (five in the Finals) and one fifth.
He was 11-0, andin those games, he averaged 18 points and 30 rebounds.Jordan has a sparse Game 7 resume, which is to his credit.
Histeams have been so dominant that there have been only two seventhgames in the seven-year Chicago run.
They are, of course, 2-0.So hear this, and hear it well: William F. Russell would comeout of nowhere to block a Michael Jordan shot just as easily andjust as frequently as he did to Elgin Baylor, Jerry West, and OscarRobertson, to name three of the many NBA players of the '60s whocould step into the NBA today to make All-Star teams.And hear this: Sam Jones was a better guard than any current NBAbackcourt player not named Michael Jordan.
Yeah, that includes GaryPayton, Penny Hardaway, and anyone else you can name.And this: Before there was Scottie Pippen, there was JohnHavlicek, who never had to come out of a game and who, at age 37,shut off a prime-of-life Dr. J in the 1977 playoffs.The big difference between the '60s and the '90s is the coachingapproach, not necessarily the inherent athletic ability.
Everythingis geared to defense today.
In Russell's third championship season,1960, the Celtics averaged 120 shots a game.
In Jordan's sixchampionship seasons, the Chicago annual average is 86.
The fewestshots averaged by a Russell title team were 101 in 1968-69.
Thegame concept was entirely different.The modern defenses are more complex and sophisticated.
Russell Co. had scouting reports and a memory bank.
Jordan and Friendshave videotapes and computer printout tendencies.
Meanwhile,offenses are more cautious the fast break has almost disapperedas an art form and the players, however athletic, are woefullyincomplete once you take away their Plan A.
The old guys were morewell-rounded basketball players.
The modern defenses are combatingmore and more players who really don't know how to play.
HaveRussell anchor one of today's defenses and he would be even moredevastating.
How about that?
Bill Russell and Michael Jordan are the two greatestdemonstrated winners in American team sport history.
On sport's Mt.Olympus, they occupy the two finest houses.What was the poetry like?
Several hundred poems are sitting inthe Sexton archive in Texas, mostly unread until now.
A few of thepoems are very good, and were later published in literary journalslike the Yale Review, the Hudson Review, and the American Scholar.Most of the poems were student quality, some good enough to publishin the hospital newsletter.
And some were just blots, wordsscrawled on paper by men and women shocked, both literally andfiguratively, onto the verges of catatonia.Perhaps better than her student Plunkett, Sexton, who hadalready attempted suicide, understood how close to the precipicesome of her students were standing.
Several wrote about theirsuicide watches.
One not-untypical fragment:Perhaps inevitably, the intensely self-critical and depressiveSexton viewed the seminar as a failure.
In December 1973 shegathered some of the McLean poems and notes into a manila folderand scrawled a note in felt-tipped pen on the outside cover:That's not all.
He compared what they say (begin itals) now (enditals) to what they said (begin itals) then, (end itals), in theheady days when Mt.
Monica erupted and the scandal-mongers amongthe media pack went berserk.
Is there a more apt term for the mediameltdown dissected so pitilessly by Brill?And an ugly picture it is.
From the malevolent LucianneGoldberg, book agent to the duplicitous Linda Tripp, betrayer ofMonica's crush and confidences, to the incredibly-plugged-inMichael Isikoff of Newsweek.The early line on Brill's 30,000-word autopsy of this D.C.dustup was that Kenneth Starr, right-wing tobacco lawyer, impaledhimself again with his admission that he and his agents haveroutinely leaked secret stuff to reporters in the scandal circuit.But having read the first two-thirds of Brill's rehash (the restwas lost in faxland, alas), I'd suggest the far more damaging stuffis what comes out of the mouths of the players the Clinton-haterslike Goldberg and Tripp, their lawyers, agents, and handmaidens inthe prosecutorial corps, and the journalists themselves.Newsweek, for decades a smouldering second fiddle to Timemagazine, made a commitment at the corporate level to play up thescandal.
Isikoff and Howard Fineman, a Newsweek political writer,wangled themselves lucrative cash deals with television networkswho saw, in an age of deconstructing viewership, a way to slashtheir way back to profitability.
Just when the O.J.
trial left thecable network news people sucking wind, Monica pops up to do forkneepads and dry cleaners what O.J.
did for bloody gloves and BrunoMagli shoes.The question for Newsweek editors is: Was Isikoff ahead on thisstory because he was part of the Get-Clinton conspiracy?
DoNewsweek's superiors countenance this kind of hanky-panky?
Isikoffwas meeting regularly with Goldberg and Tripp, he was colludingwith prosecutor Starr on just how to time disclosures to exertmaximum pressure on witnesses Starr was trying to rubber-hose intobetraying Clinton.
It smells like an Arkansas hog farm.Where were the Newsweek editors?
Why didn't some bosses at ABCand NBC rein in their heavy-breathing, impeachment-predictingyarn-spinners?
Why did the once-proud Big 3 network news divisionsplunge so readily in the sheepdip?
Are the cable news networks soshabby that they'll hype their ratings so crudely?
Yes!
in the caseof CNBC, MSNBC, and Fox, at least.
They lured viewers withhalf-baked fantasies about oral sex in the Oval Office.
Whathappened to the standards?
(begin itals) What standards?
(enditals) TV journalism no longer has any standards, networksincluded.
And Newsweek has a lot of explaining to do.For readers who have long suspected that many mediapersonalities were hyping the various Clinton scandals for lessthan pure reasons, Brill's article is a goldmine.
Read it and weepfor the shoddy business that so much of Washington's celebrityjournalism has become.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.WOODWARD-IMPACT (Boston) -- When the first reports appearedabout Matthew Eappen's death, the case against Louise Woodward wassimilar to OJ Simpson's: It captivated two nations; exposed sharpdivides issues such as working mothers, child care and the flawedjudicial system; and it had enough real-life high drama to eclipsemost soap operas.
By Peter Canellos (2 takes)MCNAMARA-COLUMN (Undated) No judgment of any court will everdeem the Woodward case over for Deborah and Sunil Eappen.
By EileenMcNamara.NOLAN-COLUMN (Undated) -- When books are written by the likes ofDick Morris with the preposterous theme of thehired-hand-as-genius, loyalty is as rare as laughter.
By Martin F.Nolan.SEXTON-MAD-POETS (Undated) -- Less than six years before shecommitted suicide, Anne Sexton taught a series of poetry seminarsat a Massachusetts mental hospital.
Now, for the first time, someof the patients who attended talk about it.
By Alex Beam.
(2 takes)SEXTON-PLUNKETT (Undated) -- When Anne Sexton came to teach atMcLean Hospital, Eugenia Plunkett had already been in and out ofthe hospital for almost five years.
By Alex Beam.
750 words.MAGAZINE-REVIEW (Undated) To the veritable haberdashery ofhats worn with distinction by Jules Feiffer cartoonist,screenwriter, playwright, novelist we can now add one more:editor.
By Don Aucoin.PICTURETEL-CEO (Undated) -- Last year was a disaster forPictureTel.
Everything that could go wrong, did go wrong.
Now it'sup to Bruce Bond, the company's new CEO, to turn the companyaround.
By Joann Muller.
1000 words.HKN-CUP-NOTES (Washington) The NHL's general managers arerecommending some key rule changes that would be implemented duringthe 1998-99 season if approved at the Board of Governors meetingJune 25.Still, Billington sometimes manages to go beyond the obligatory the Hermitage, the Kremlin, the larger-than-life rulers fromCatherine the Great to Lenin.
He takes us to a tiny, pristinecountry church, and to the grandiose Church of the Transfiguration,with its bouquet of 22 onion domes and its 30,000 hand-hewn woodenshingles.
The Church of the Transfiguration is on a remote islandwhere it couldn't have been seen by many: It was built for God, notman.Enormity and excess are among the themes Billington treats inthis televised tapestry.
Take bells.
In Christianized Russia, theyconveyed the Lord's message, and because their power only extendedas far as their sound, they got bigger and bigger until Russia hadthe biggest bell in the world, which is still ensconced in Moscow'sKremlin.
It has never been rung, because it is too heavy to get offthe ground.Icons were the first art that Russia made her own, and it's withicons that Billington begins, showing us mournful images of a graveand tender mother of God cheek-to-cheek with a Christ who is aminiature adult rather than a child.
One of the show's strengths isthe chance it gives us to see icons not as we would in a museum static, hung against a white wall, behind glass but in use, beingparaded in streets, being prayed to.The icons that survived Stalin are often in sad shape, coveredin soot from worshippers' candles.
While the fall of Communismmeant that icons could be freely exhibited once again, there islittle money to restore them.
Skipping through the centuries,Billington notes how important ancient icons were to such early20th century giants of Russian art as Kandinsky and Tatlin.
And heshows contemporary icon painters at work, grinding precious lapisand malachite into rich pigments bound with the yolks of eggs.
Thedesire of these artists whose lives have seen so much upheaval tomake art that will last a thousand years is a touching contrastwith their peers in the West, many of whom don't mind making artthat is short-lived either by intent or sloppy construction.The two great women empresses who ruled Russia in the 18thcentury, Elizabeth and Catherine the Great, turned the capital intoa glittering stage set.
There was misery backstage, though allthose millions of people living in poverty and ignorance.
Thenightmare of their hopelessness found expression in the writing ofGogol.Music and film are Billington's focus for the third and finalepisode, Moussorgsky and Eisenstein his stars.
While Tchaikovksyand other composers were looking toward the West, Moussorgsky waspeering deep into the Russian soul.
It's perhaps this search forthe most Russian examples of Russian art, especially art linked toRussian history, that leads Billington to devote precious time torealist artists like Ilya Repin, painter of impoverished peasants,and to all but ignore great movements like Constructivism.While he doesn't come out and say that the Russia of today is amess, neither does Billington try to construct a happy ending forhis series.
Near the end is a particularly dismal image.
In frontof the palaces of the Hermitage, one of the world's most gloriousarchitectural ensembles, is a giant inflatable plastic toy palace,for people to bounce on.Since then, the U.S. armed forces have been downsizeddramatically and stretched thin as they have been dispatched totrouble spots around the globe.
But the civil-military programshave continued, despite questions about how carefully they havebeen monitored.Although most projects have been short-range, low-budget items,a major exception can be found on remote Annette Island insouthwestern Alaska.
There, four branches of the armed services areat work on a five-year project costing at least $20 million tobuild 14 miles of gravel road, which the state has promised to pavelater for an estimated $15 million.
The road will connect the tinyTsimshian Indian village of Metlakatla, population 1,600, to thelanding site for a planned ferry service that would be less than amile to the mainland, compared to the 15-mile trip now.This town on the only Indian reservation in the state hadunsuccessfully lobbied the federal and state governments fordecades to build the road, until they hooked up with the Departmentof Defense.
There they had a crucial ally in Sen. Ted Stevens, aRepublican who chairs the Senate Appropriations Committee and itsdefense subcommittee, making him the most powerful senator when itcomes to deciding how the Pentagon will spend money.
Moreover,Stevens is famous for steering federal dollars in the direction ofhis home state.The Alaska road project, costing more than $5 million last year,consumed nearly one-third of the $16 million annual budget forcivil-military projects for all states.
But Raffetto bristled atthe suggestion that the project was pork-barrel spending for a roadthat will easily cost $22,000 per island resident.Operation Alaska Road has required a major logistics effort,including building a base camp of 37 buildings to house and feed300 persons, including the National Guard and reservists from asfar away as Missouri and Massachusetts, who are shuttled in and outon two-week shifts for their annual training exercise.Already the undertaking has brought in 850 Marines, who spent 23days on ships sailing to and from the island from their base in SanDiego.
Bringing in heavy equipment, including a rock crusher,five-ton dump trucks and a bulldozer, required three deliveries bythe military's biggest plane, the C-5 Galaxy.
The planes flew infrom a National Guard base in New York at a cost of $12,605 perflight hour, not counting the expense for the seven-member crew.All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category.
If youhave questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox NewsService, at 404-526-5456.KELSO-COLUMN AUSTIN Perhaps no one in America has sacrificedas much for marital relations in America as Bill Bradford II, oneof the inventors of the Johnny-Light.
Two years ago, Bradford, aresident of Burleson near Fort Worth, gave up a $90,000-a-year jobas an electrical engineer to market the device.
The Johnny-Lightwarns women in the middle of the night if some bonehead has leftthe toilet seat up.
(Kelso, Austin American-Statesman) Palm BeachPost) MOVED.CSIBLEY-COLUMN ATLANTA Ellen Bryan Mrs. Wright Bryan died at the age of 93 years.
It's funny the things that stick inyour mind about a person you don't know well, but cherish like youcherish unexpected laughter and a crazy, odd meeting.
Mrs. Bryan'shusband was editor of The Atlanta Journal, a newspaper we on TheAtlanta Constitution considered our unlikely, unloved competition.But we did like the Bryans and rejoice in Ellen's humor andgoodwill.
(Sibley, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.MCCARTY-COLUMN We live in an enlightened age, right?
Morewomen are running companies, fighting fires, mending bones.
Sowhat's wrong with Hollywood?
There women are given the boot justabout the time they develop the grace, wisdom and strength thattruly makes them attractive.
(McCarty, Dayton Daily News) MOVED.REAL-LIFE So, let that Giuliani fellow worry about all thosefolks up in New York City, the ones who need a hug and a smile anda weekend in the country.
I've got enough to keep me going righthere.
And that's no exaggeration.
(Minor, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.WOODWARD-IMPACT (Boston) -- When the first reports appearedabout Matthew Eappen's death, the case against Louise Woodward wassimilar to OJ Simpson's: It captivated two nations; exposed sharpdivides issues such as working mothers, child care and the flawedjudicial system; and it had enough real-life high drama to eclipsemost soap operas.
By Peter Canellos (2 takes)MCNAMARA-COLUMN (Undated) No judgment of any court will everdeem the Woodward case over for Deborah and Sunil Eappen.
By EileenMcNamara.NOLAN-COLUMN (Undated) -- When books are written by the likes ofDick Morris with the preposterous theme of thehired-hand-as-genius, loyalty is as rare as laughter.
By Martin F.Nolan.SEXTON-MAD-POETS (Undated) -- Less than six years before shecommitted suicide, Anne Sexton taught a series of poetry seminarsat a Massachusetts mental hospital.
Now, for the first time, someof the patients who attended talk about it.
By Alex Beam.
(2 takes)SEXTON-PLUNKETT (Undated) -- When Anne Sexton came to teach atMcLean Hospital, Eugenia Plunkett had already been in and out ofthe hospital for almost five years.
By Alex Beam.
750 words.MAGAZINE-REVIEW (Undated) To the veritable haberdashery ofhats worn with distinction by Jules Feiffer cartoonist,screenwriter, playwright, novelist we can now add one more:editor.
By Don Aucoin.PICTURETEL-CEO (Undated) -- Last year was a disaster forPictureTel.
Everything that could go wrong, did go wrong.
Now it'sup to Bruce Bond, the company's new CEO, to turn the companyaround.
By Joann Muller.
1000 words.HKN-NHL-NOTES (Washington) The NHL's general managers arerecommending some key rule changes that would be implemented duringthe 1998-99 season if approved at the Board of Governors meetingJune 25.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open bydenying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed poolthat is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite forCentral Texans.
In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judgetook literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inchsalamander, which lives only in the local springs.
(Copelin, AustinAmerican-Statesman) MOVED.NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; SelectiveService registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in agame; hurricane names; and more.
Gleaned from the week's news Q A.
(Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.STREET-MINISTER RIVIERA BEACH About a year ago, after aprophetic vision, Rev.
Lessye Charlow set out to drive the drugtrade from her street.
A minister for 45 years, she knows only oneway how.
Several evenings a week, she wields a second-hand crucifixand a personalized Bible, with the Red Sea miracle flagged by ayellow Post-It note, and marches down the middle of West 33rd,filling dealers and admirers alike with dread.
(Trontz, Palm BeachPost) MOVED.FOOD-COBBLER Cobblers and crisps are two of the best andeasiest ways to showcase our favorite summer fruits, includingpeaches, blackberries and cherries.
(Walker, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially nextweek, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read.
Wewanted more than just a collection of recipes.
(Heller, DaytonDaily News) MOVED.BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearbyDusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is theleast familiar of German styles in the United States.
It's adifferent kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light asa sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical7-ounce glass with no ornamentation.
(Skube, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swaplooking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook andmanual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948.
Luckily, therewere a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyermixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe.
Andreaders Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reportedtheir mixers were still working.
(Recipe follows.)
(Walker, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline theentertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, whowas invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site ofthe festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18.
EMBARGOED FOR6/18.YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled barto bar at night.
This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City.
YborCity draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife.
Nightclubs areshoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, likecheapskates at an open bar.
That wasn't the case about 20 years agowhen Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-nightneighborhood.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up inYbor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a1-mile walking tour a lively excursion.
A volunteer guide, she'lltell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla.
This small town built next to the Gulfof Mexico gives contradictory first impressions.
You see aVictorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas andpicket fences.
But on closer inspection it looks like a movie settoo perfect to be a real town.
In fact, Seaside, which was thelocation for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, isnot historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage.
(Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla.
So what do people doin this Architectural Digest-perfect town?
One would think the Gulfof Mexico would be the main attraction.
No, indeed.
Houses are whatdraw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,who come here to admire and photograph the real estate.
(Blackerby,Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla.
I'm on the Suwannee.
Thehouseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the riverimmortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfectplace to remember old daydreams.
Our cruise begins at Miller'sMarina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into thegulf on Florida's West Coast.
The lower area of the river is anational wildlife refuge.
(Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open bydenying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed poolthat is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite forCentral Texans.
In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judgetook literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inchsalamander, which lives only in the local springs.
(Copelin, AustinAmerican-Statesman) MOVED.NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; SelectiveService registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in agame; hurricane names; and more.
Gleaned from the week's news Q A.
(Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.STREET-MINISTER RIVIERA BEACH About a year ago, after aprophetic vision, Rev.
Lessye Charlow set out to drive the drugtrade from her street.
A minister for 45 years, she knows only oneway how.
Several evenings a week, she wields a second-hand crucifixand a personalized Bible, with the Red Sea miracle flagged by ayellow Post-It note, and marches down the middle of West 33rd,filling dealers and admirers alike with dread.
(Trontz, Palm BeachPost) MOVED.FOOD-COBBLER Cobblers and crisps are two of the best andeasiest ways to showcase our favorite summer fruits, includingpeaches, blackberries and cherries.
(Walker, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) ETA 8 p.m. ET.HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially nextweek, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read.
Wewanted more than just a collection of recipes.
(Heller, DaytonDaily News) MOVED.BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearbyDusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is theleast familiar of German styles in the United States.
It's adifferent kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light asa sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical7-ounce glass with no ornamentation.
(Skube, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swaplooking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook andmanual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948.
Luckily, therewere a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyermixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe.
Andreaders Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reportedtheir mixers were still working.
(Recipe follows.)
(Walker, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline theentertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, whowas invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site ofthe festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18.
EMBARGOED FOR6/18.YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled barto bar at night.
This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City.
YborCity draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife.
Nightclubs areshoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, likecheapskates at an open bar.
That wasn't the case about 20 years agowhen Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-nightneighborhood.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up inYbor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a1-mile walking tour a lively excursion.
A volunteer guide, she'lltell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla.
This small town built next to the Gulfof Mexico gives contradictory first impressions.
You see aVictorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas andpicket fences.
But on closer inspection it looks like a movie settoo perfect to be a real town.
In fact, Seaside, which was thelocation for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, isnot historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage.
(Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla.
So what do people doin this Architectural Digest-perfect town?
One would think the Gulfof Mexico would be the main attraction.
No, indeed.
Houses are whatdraw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,who come here to admire and photograph the real estate.
(Blackerby,Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla.
I'm on the Suwannee.
Thehouseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the riverimmortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfectplace to remember old daydreams.
Our cruise begins at Miller'sMarina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into thegulf on Florida's West Coast.
The lower area of the river is anational wildlife refuge.
(Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.DAYTON, Ohio A ritual of summer is to stretch out beside thepool or on the beach, or curl up on the patio or porch with a goodbook.
For those who read with a mixing spoon in one hand andthose who just love to eat the book in their laps is often acookbook.The lazy days of summer arrive officially next week, so we wentlooking for cookbooks that are a good read.
We wanted more thanjust a collection of recipes.
Some that we found are interwovenwith the memories of life.
Others focus on learning the techniquesrather than the precise ingredients that make a great dish.
One isa biography.Though the tidal wave of low-fat books continues, there are nonein this list.
These books may be a light read, but they certainlydon't qualify as entertainment.However, the fascination with Italian cookery continues.
Twobooks this season focus on life and food in the Sicilian-Americancommunities, one in the Little Italy of Manhattan and the other inBrooklyn.Here is a bunch to put in a bookbag when you go to the beach orback yard:E The Man Who Ate Everything, by Jeffrey Steingarten (Knopf,$27.50).
If irreverence is your bag, pick up this book by the foodcritic of Vogue magazine.
Don't expect recipes, though there are afew tucked in peripherally, much the way some mystery writers dothese days.Each free-standing chapter is perfect for a summer read on theporch swing.
The eclectic mix of recipes, from American apple pieand butterscotch nut ice cream to chocolate granita and grilledeel, may or may not tempt you to cook, but eaters will savor thechase.You don't have to be Italian or have roots in Brooklyn to enjoypeering through this window of life into the Italian ghetto ofBrooklyn at the beginning of this century.
Raised in a house whereGrandfather did the cooking, Schiavelli writes of a world where thefamilies were Sicilian first, Brooklynites second and Americansonly a distant third.
He writes of their rituals of life that givemeaning to the food, and the recipes.
Chicken soup is not justsoup, it is the specific meal served to the family taking care ofchildren during a funeral service.
Veal cutlets were the staple atthe Men's Club and fried fish the essentials of Christmas Eve inBruculinu .
It is a book with soul.For a slightly different look on the world, pick up Mangia,Little Italy!
Secrets from a Sicilian Family Kitchen , by FrancescaRomina (Chronicle, $18.95 paperback), which is based in lowerManhattan's Little Italy section, adjacent to Chinatown.
Rominaalso interweaves stories and family recipes.From my view, Reichl is the most talented writer among newspaperfood critics, so this is a good read.
Just don't expect insightsinto the restaurant or reviewing businesses.
A few recipes arescattered through the memoir, none of them her mother's.E The Perfect Recipe : Getting It Right Every Time, by PamAnderson ($27, Houghton-Mifflin) is a good choice for serious cookswho have yet to subscribe to Cook's Illustrated magazine.
Andersonis is executive editor of the magazine known to foodies for itsexhaustive testing, revising and retesting of recipes, withperfection in mind.
Much of the material appeared in Cook's, wherethey kitchen trials range from roasting 40 turkeys or 20 prime ribsjust to find the answers.
Readers will find out why brining aturkey produces the best Thanksgiving bird, and why the milk goesin before the butter for perfect mashed potatoes.E Great Pies and Tarts, by Carole Walter (Potter, $35).
Don'tjust cut to the recipes.
Even if you are confident of yourpie-baking skills, be sure to browse the first 100 pages of thisbook, particularly the chapter devoted to technique.The tips alone from this respected cooking teacher are worth theprice of the book.
Did you know that old eggs separate more easilythan fresh eggs?
That cream close to the expiration date will whipbetter than very fresh cream?
That a sifter should never be washed?That citrus zest that has been finely grated will be more pungentthan zest that has been minced?The first part of the book is fairly encyclopedic but then comethe recipes.
The array of pastry recipes is tempting, from toastedcoconut pie pastry or pine nut pastry to cookie-and-nut crusts madewith everything from biscotti or amaretti to ginger snaps.
Basicssuch as apple and lemon meringue pie are included, but this teacherstretches the pastry imagination to put a sweet risotto filling inan almond crust.
Very precise instructions make it easy for even anovice to succeed with the recipes.E Born to Grill, An American Celebration by Cheryl AltersJamison and Bill Jamison (Harvard Common Press, $27.95) is the onemajor grilling book of the season, and it's one of the best choicesif a collection of recipes is all you're after.Moving from the world of slow, wood-smoked barbecues in theirbestselling Smoke Spice , the authors now explore the realm ofopen fire grilling.
Big flavors dominate the recipes in this book.It's a good choice for a last minute gift for Father's Day.
Maybehe'll read it and have something new for the Fourth of July.AUSTIN Perhaps no one in America has sacrificed as much formarital relations in America as Bill Bradford II, one of theinventors of the Johnny-Light.This year Estes switched to a stronger grip, turning his handsto the right and his game up several notches.
He made the changewithout using instruction from a swing coach.
Estes now wishessomeone had advised him earlier in his career to use a strongergrip, which produces right-to-left shots that tend to carry fartherthan the left-to-right shots from a weak grip.Estes ranks ninth in scoring average, 70.04 strokes per round.He has made 15 cuts in 16 events.
He tied for second at Bay Hill inMarch and finished third at Greensboro in April.Even so, he is not satisfied, particulary with his putting.Though he ranks 20th in that category, Estes said he needs tobecome better to elevate his game.It was not those putts that cost Estes a victory this year,though.
At Greensboro, he led by one shot with two holes left butmade bogey at both, missing four-foot putts at each.So Estes will now try crosshanded putting, placing his left handlower than the right.
Some golfers say that enables them to movetheir putter down the line more easily.
Proponents of crosshandedputting say that the conventional grip right hand below left isless steady, because the left wrist can break down, producing puttsthat pull to the left.NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGitholding catdgory.
If you need assistance in setting this up, pleasecall IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.Penders, who resigned under pressure at Texas on April 2, wouldreplace Mike Jarvis, who recently was hired by St. John's.If Penders does become coach, he can leave his box of toolsbehind this time.
Penders, renowned as a Mr. Fix-It in collegebasketball, turned losing programs into winners at Rhode Island andTexas.
He would start on higher ground at George Washington.
TheColonials were 152-90 in eight seasons under Jarvis, including 24-9last season.
They were 11-5 in the Atlantic-10 Conference, tied forfirst in the West Division.
Four starters return from that team.
Ifthere is an adjustment period, it might be because Penders, whoprefers up-tempo basketball, inherits a team with more size thanquickness, one accustomed to a half-court game.George Washington made four NCAA tournament appearances underJarvis, reaching the third round in 1993 and losing in the firstround in '94, '96 and '98.When Penders went to Rhode Island from Fordham in 1986, heinherited a program that was 42-97 the previous five seasons.
RhodeIsland finished 20-10 in Penders' first season and 28-7 the next,reaching the third round of the 1988 NCAA tournament before losingto Duke by one point.That performance earned Penders the head coach's job at Texasvacated by Bob Weltlich, who went 77-98 in six seasons and wasfired in 1988.Penders was 208-110 at Texas, winning more games than anyLonghorns coach.
Texas, which had not been to the NCAA tournamentsince 1979, went eight times in Penders' 10 years.
His tournamentrecord was 10-8.Penders resigned under pressure less than a month after fourplayers complained to Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds about verbalabuse by the coach and lack of improvement in their games.
Penderswas also under heat because an academic report for freshman LukeAxtell was faxed to radio station KVET-AM by assistant coach EddieOran in violation of privacy law.Oran took responsibility for faxing the report, saying in awritten statement that he did it of his own volition.
Oran has notbeen available to comment on the matter, and Penders said he had noknowledge that his assistant was going to fax the report.HOUSTON An hour before a recent game, Astros owner DraytonMcLane, a county judge, the mayor and even a pseudo-commissionergathered in the bowels of the creaky, old Astrodome for what wasdescribed as a major annoucement to secure the team's stability.McLane, Bud Selig and friends did so much strutting youhalf-expected the buttons on their shirts to fly off into theaudience.The officials revealed the team's signing of a 30-year, ironcladlease for the club's new stadium with 42,000 seats, a grass fieldand a retractable roof that will retract, we suppose, on the lastday of the season if the temperature dips below 90.Of course, it will also have 63 luxury boxes closer to thefield, better amenities, charter seat licenses, a ritzy venueattractive to free agents and, you can be sure, a new name by thetime the $229 million park opens in 2000.The Ballpark at Union Station, its current tag, sounds quaint inthe same manner of Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
Rather, it willuntil McLane sells the naming rights to Enron or Compaq or anyoneelse with a spare $40 mil or so.What Wednesday's news meant, besides the fact that the Astroswon't be moving to Northern Virginia, Round Rock or anywhere elseuntil at least 2031, is that McLane's pockets just got a littledeeper.That could be telling, particularly in the area of pitching toshore up a fragile staff that just got weaker with Mike Hampton'sstay on the disabled list.
New stadiums and high-priced talent gohand in hand, or arm in arm.
Is there any wonder that Houston'sDarryl Kile defected in the off-season for $24 million over threeyears to Colorado, where the air is thin but the crowds are thick?Chances are you won't see the Astros pull off the type of dealto bring Curt Schilling or Randy Johnson to town, but it might freeup McLane to shell out for Pete Harnisch or Bret Saberhagen beforethe July 31 trading deadline.
Both of those, however, are moresuspect than saviors.
Same for the usual late- summer cast ofcastoffs like Mike Morgan or Bob Tewksbury.Halama, a rakish lefty, was overwhelmed in his first stint withthe Astros to start the season but has recovered nicely in theminors with a 6-1 record, 3.15 earned run average and six walks in54 innings.
Elarton has won nine games and given up only 71 hits in92 innings.
But I'd send them both packing in a New Orleans minuteto get Johnson.Smith, though, sounds like a man who prefers to stand pat, inpart because the team's $39 million payroll is still more bloatedthan McLane desires after $100 million of red ink in six years.Hampton, out with a strained groin, is expected to miss only twostarts.
Shane Reynolds is 5-1 over his last seven starts with a2.56 ERA.
Until Tuesday's seven-walk game, Pete Schourek haspitched more than adequately, and Sean Bergman has an outstanding3.00 ERA.Assuming Hampton rebounds with no dropoff, the Astros certainlyhave enough pitching to hold off the Cubs, Brewers and surprisingPirates in the Central.
But it's doubtful they can best the Braves'staff of Cy Youngs without an in- season transfusion.Amen to that.
After all, who in March would have dared thinkJose Lima would become the National League's first six-game winnerin May?
The animated, 25-year-old right-hander threw seven strong,fist-pumping innings Wednesday and Houston rallied for a 6-5 win.He was right on both counts.
His offense, even with a strugglingJeff Bagwell, has been better than good.
And his pitching has beenincredible, its current 3.54 ERA the third-lowest in the league.Dierker could even deserve early manager of the yearconsideration, given Bagwell's year and a pitching staffthree-fifths of which was lost to injury and free agency.
RamonGarcia and Chris Holt have been disabled all season.
Garcia'sprobably done and Holt won't be available until at least lateAugust.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.
Tired of scanning the tabloids whilewaiting in line at the supermarket?
Next time, try scanning yourgroceries.Anne O'Connor did Wednesday morning.
In a few minutes, shescanned $31.02 in granola bars, ice cream and other groceries andgot a printed bill.
The price of each item was displayed on ascreen and read off by a silky voice.Winn-Dixie opened its first self-checkout lanes in South Floridaon June 4 at its store west of Boynton Beach, at Jog and Hypoluxoroads, and invited reporters in Wednesday to see them in operation.The store, which opened April 30, got the lanes first becauseexecutives of the Jacksonville-based chain believe customers in theburgeoning Boynton suburbs would be more receptive.Terry Walsh, Winn-Dixie marketing director in South Florida,said there still will be lanes with cashiers.
But self-checkoutlanes including the three at the west Boynton store give antsycustomers in long lines an option to do it themselves.
To pay, theytake printed bills to a central cashier.Self-checkout lanes already operate at 16 Tampa, Orlando andJacksonville Winn-Dixies.
Two more stores in Palm Beach County andone in Broward will have them by the end of December.
The companywon't say where.
Outside of Winn-Dixie, only two other chains APin the Northeast and Finast in the Midwest use them.The system works like this: Groceries are placed one by one on aglass-surfaced bar code reader that records the price.
The customerthen drops them onto a conveyor belt, and each item passes througha second gizmo a scanner that showers it with lasers.
The laseris designed to prevent a customer from scanning an item, thenreplacing it with something more expensive.If the two scans don't match, the conveyor belt reversesdirection and returns the item to the customer.For veggies and fruit, the shopper places the items on thescanner, which doubles as a scale, looks them up in a booklet nextto the price display screen and keys in the identification numbers.The computer does the rest.Winn-Dixie estimates that 30 percent of a store's customers willuse the lanes, but it won't give out a customer total.
Generally,customers with 10 items or less will try it, executives said.The system, made by Productivity Solutions of Jacksonville, hasat least one other safeguard against theft.
The bar code scannerturns off after each item is recorded and doesn't switch on againuntil the item rolls through the laser scanner.
Also, there stillare cashiers and baggers who will watch for shoplifters, as they donow.The Automotive Service Association, or ASA, is a nationalorganization with members throughout the country and is a goodplace to start.
The organization has a code of ethics members areexpected to follow, and it offers benefits such as technicaltraining and other amenities to attract top-notch mechanics.
Itperforms a pre-employment check of prospective employees, whichhelps weed out substandard mechanics, and encourages certificationof its members.-- To furnish an itemized invoice for fairly priced parts andservices that clearly identifies any used or remanufactured parts.Replaced parts may be inspected upon request.You deserve to know what you've paid for in clear, conciseterms.
There are times when the cost of a new part is prohibitive,especially with larger components such as starters and alternators,so a good-quality remanufactured unit may be a better deal.-- To recommend corrective and maintenance services, explainingto the customer which of these are required to correct existingproblems and which are for preventive maintenance.Unscrupulous and poorly trained mechanics will recommend repairsthat are unfounded and, in all honesty, there are times when even awell-trained mechanic will make a mistake.Many customers get peeved when they take their cars in for therepair of one thing only to be presented with a list of unrelateditems that need attention.
However, if the fan belt breaks or thebrakes start grinding a week later, we blame the same shop for thatproblem.When I am servicing or repairing a car, I look around for otherpotential trouble spots.
This means looking at more than the carcame in for.
I know the customer isn't going to crawl under the caron a regular basis (if at all) and check things out.
That's my job.I would much rather give customers a list of potentiallytroublesome situations than have them encounter a problem I saw butfailed tell them about.ATLANTA -- For years, the GMC truck brand has seemed to exist inthe shadow of its big brother, Chevrolet.
Chevy trucks have playedwell, while the GMC brand has just sort of hung around other GMbrand dealerships with seemingly little more purpose than to offerthe availability of a truck should such a customer stumble into anOlds, Pontiac, Buick or Cadillac dealer.The 1999 GMC Sierra will, for the first time in many years, havemany brand-specific features: hoods, fenders, bumpers, fascia andheadlamp assemblies.
No longer will it be merely a rebadged Chevy.The '99 Sierra also offers some nifty new features, starting with aredesigned frame; improved fuel economy, horsepower and torqueratings; and comfortable seating in an enlarged passenger area inthe extended-cab models.Sierra's one possible shortcoming is the lack of the fourth dooron the extended-cab edition.
Both Ford and Dodge extended cabsoffer this feature.The launch of these vehicles is important to GMC and GeneralMotors, especially since the average sales transaction on thesevehicles carries a reported $7,000 profit to GM.But a labor dispute at the Flint, Mich., stamping plant -- wherethose unique hood and fenders were to be stamped -- is a problem.Over the Memorial Day weekend, management quietly moved thestamping equipment to another location, perhaps anticipating thestrike.
It was like drawing a line in the sand; the Flint workerswalked.Their strike is about more than just the stamping equipment.
Itis a culmination of watching the exodus of automotive jobs from notonly Flint and the rest of Michigan but the entire United States.If the dispute isn't resolved quickly, it also has the potentialof disrupting one of the biggest vehicle launches in recent GMhistory.ATLANTA -- Comes now the 1998 Daewoo Leganza front-drive sedan,wafting over from South Korea like some test balloon intended totell its launchers which way car sales are blowing and to locatehot spots.The Leganza, a comfortable enough four-door with exterior linesand trim vaguely reminiscent of Chrysler/General Motors cars, isone of three models due here from Daewoo.The multi-industrial firm, which reports its sales last yeartotaled $68 billion, also plans to bring in a 1.6-liter-enginedLanos coupe and sedan and a 2.0-liter-engined Nubira coupe andsedan.Prices aren't firm.
Daewoo says the Leganza will range from$15,000 to $20,000, while the smaller Nubira will be in the$12,000-$14,000 range and the subcompact Lanos in the$9,000-$12,000 range.
It's difficult to imagine the fully equippedtest Leganza -- silver with a two-tone brown interior set off byfaux wood trim -- rolling out of a showroom for less than $22,000.Daewoo's Los Angeles-based publicity firm says July will findthe cars in 14 major markets, although a site for the company-ownedshowroom in Atlanta has not been announced.
(Calls to Daewoo'soffices in Compton, Calif., were not returned.
)The test vehicle made it obvious that pricing will be a vitalfactor in the Leganza's acceptance or dismissal in the highlycompetitive family sedan market.
Positives include the power/luxuryfeatures, a willingness to run stably with I-285 traffic andreasonable fuel mileage (about 25 mpg combined).
Negatives includesome awkward controls, including those for the high-end stereo, andDaewoo's lack of a track record (It has helped build some GeneralMotors vehicles, including the Pontiac LeMans).The tester's appointments were fine, with quality cloth,visually acceptable plastic, the expected amenities and someconvenience pluses: drink holders, storage spaces, plenty of vents,big outside mirrors and a split fold-down rear seat.The 2.2-liter four-cylinder engine is rated at 131 horsepower,and that seemed very realistic.
The test Leganza's motoroccasionally required restarting if cold and sometimes seemed tohave a bad relationship with the four-speed automatic transmission,resulting in some gear-hunting and unexpected kick-downs.
It's nota quiet power plant, but how many four-cylinders really are hushed?The ride was generally good, although the independent suspensioncould be heard working on rough surfaces.
Both the rack-and-pinionsteering and the power anti-lock disc brakes seemed suitable forthe North American market, meaning neither required much effort.Major features (some optional): air conditioning, power locksand windows, cruise control, power tilt/slide sunroof, powerrack-and-pinion steering, 100-watt AM/FM stereo with six speakersand CD/cassette playersWASHINGTON Overcoming months of resistance from Republicanleaders, the House began Thursday to debate the main bipartisanproposal for new campaign finance laws.Up to seven more weeks of debate on hundreds of amendments lieahead before a final vote in the House under a new schedule for afinal vote promised by Republican leaders.House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, made a statement onthe House floor that most members interpreted as a pledge therewould be a vote on the final, amended version of a campaign-financebill before the legislators start their summer vacation, nowscheduled to begin Aug. 7.But Armey's promise persuaded Shays and other GOP supporters ofthe bipartisan bill to drop their threat to vote against new rulesthat allow a record number of amendments during the debate.The modified rules adopted Thursday by a vote of 221-189 statethat let members offer an unlimited number of amendments that aregermane, or related to campaign finance bills, and a record-setting258 non-germane amendments.The Shays-Meehan bill would ban all contributions to parties forany purposes from corporate or union treasuries, and would limitthe amount that any individual could contribute in one year.
Underthe current system, parties can accept as much as they want fromany source to fund activities that the parties assert do notprovide direct assistance to federal candidates.PARIS There are three good reasons for despising the thugs,the mostly English thugs, who ran wild in Marseille the other day and who are lying in wait to do it again.The first reason to despise them is that they despise us.
Theyare sociopaths, not stupid, and they mean to attack the helpless,throw society into chaos.
They just happen to choose soccer fortheir cover.The second reason to despise the thugs is that they are used asan excuse to scorn soccer back in the United States.
Apparently itis easier for television news editors and newspaper headlinewriters to document English criminals and racists than it is toportray Nigerians running the fast break or Brazilians charming thehost country.The third reason to despise the thugs is that they jeopardizethe carnival mood of this World Cup.
The organizers in Toulousehave had to cancel their summer-solstice music festival Sundaynight because they fear the jackals waiting in the weeds for thenext England game Monday.What a shame, because the hosts have planned such nice parties.The other day I went to Copacabana Beach in Nantes, the old city onthe Loire estuary, where hosts trucked in tons of sand so youngpeople could play beach soccer, so elegant women from Camerooncould sell T-shirts and artwork, so Moroccan entrepreneurs couldsell Middle Eastern sweets.Out in the main square, there was a motorcade of Moroccan fans(men and women together), horns honking, flags waving, marching andcheering, joined by Brazilians and Japanese and French and Scotsand Americans and Cameroonians, all linking arms.Meanwhile, in Marseille, they were cleaning up the mess fromtheir English visitors, who had gone into that hard southern portcity, looking to stir up trouble among the large Middle Easterncommunity.Don't get this wrong.
These marauders are not homeless orjobless or marginal people.
A number of studies have shown thatthese are men from their teens into their 40s who work all weekwhile plotting military-style maneuvers, trapping and woundingblacks or Pakistanis or Indians or Jews or women or some toff whoseface annoys them.I could make my guesses about the cause the monarchy, thenone-too-subtle divisions of accent and school and neighborhood andancestry.Any American knows we've got more than our share of malevolenceback home, but nobody has ever linked one sport with plannedviolence.
It is not the fault of the sport itself, obviously, butthe question is, can these people be identified and stopped?While Marseille was trembling, the English sent over a securityofficial who spoke excellent French and lectured on the Rights ofMan, on Liberte, Fraternite, Egalite.
I almost expected him tobreak out singing the Marseillaise.In a way, he was right.
In the new European Community, peoplecan cross the old borders with fewer restrictions than the past,the price for cheaper wine and cheese.
After several decades ofdeath and violence around soccer games, English officials havetried to limit the most notorious thugs from traveling, but it'snot working, or else the malaise is deeper than they imagined.Soccer officials cannot very well ban the English team frommajor tournaments, although it was a stroke of luck having themfail to qualify for the 1994 World Cup in the United States.There are other candidates for 2006 Germany, South Africa,Australia.
I say it's too soon to give the World Cup back toEurope, and South Africa could be unstable after the Mandela era.Australia is a good alternative, and the yobs could not just hop aferry or a train and be at the World Cup in a few hours.Do I really think a yellow card would stop the marauders?
No,not really.
But a red card would make the 2006 World Cup safer fromthese thugs, to allow the Brazilians and the Moroccans and all theother joyous fans to link arms and dance in the streets, the waythey do on Copacabana Beach in Nantes.Ms.
Holmes, the Soviet-trained artistic director of the BostonBallet, had danced the pas de deux and was drawn to the three-actwork after seeing a videotape of Konstantin Sergeyev's 1992production for the Bolshoi Ballet.
The Sergeyev staging was itselfinspired by versions by Marius Petipa, whose ballets helped defineballet classicism in Russia, in the late 19th century.Ms.
Holmes acquired the sets and costumes from another Sovietproduction, by Yuri Grigorovich, which she found stored in awarehouse in Moscow.To help with the production, she brought Vadim Disnitsky,Sergeyev's assistant, to Boston, along with Natalya Dudinskaya, Ms.Holmes' longtime mentor, a noted Soviet ballerina and the wife ofSergeyev.
Other Soviet dancers already in Boston Tatiana Legat,Tatiana Terekhova and Sergei Berejnoi helped with the staging.Irina Kolpakova, a former Kirov Ballet star currently coachingBallet Theater dancers, helped with the Soviet style, whichemphasizes the line of the upper body more than American ballettraining does.But Ms. Holmes' first step in the restaging was to work withcompany music directors on the score, which is by five composers.Then came considerable editing and reassigning of dances anddramatic bits to make the plot more plausible.Including the anecdote in a catalog statement about his art,Slick sees the fast, funny cheeseburger zinger as the kind ofequalizer used by Indians to arm themselves against the put-downsof white America.In fact, the strongest theme of the show is the clash ofAmerican Indian values with those of the contemporary world specifically the white world and the way Indians deal with being,so to speak, low men on the totem pole in a country they still seeas a bastion of colonialism.Every topic that touches on Indian-white contact is ripe forgibes, from the Bureau of Indian Affairs to television to casinoseven.In three paintings by Harry Fonseca (Maidu) done from 1987 to1993, Coyote turns up as a vaudeville Uncle Sam, a hipster in ablack leather jacket and a saint surrounded by clouds and flowers.NEW YORK The mournful tableaux of white plaster figures fittedinto diners, subway cars or telephone booths produced by GeorgeSegal in the 1960s earned him a permanent niche in the history ofPop Art.
But he was not content to confine his vision to thatgenre, and in later years he tackled other worlds and biggerthemes.The retrospective of Segal's work now on view at the JewishMuseum is determined to prove that he was more than just a Popartist; it presents him as a humanist able to address difficulthistorical topics or deep religious themes.
He also appears as aplayful traditionalist doing variations on Cezanne or Cubism and,in a series of late portrait drawings, as a follower of Rembrandt.Of the 42 works on view, only three or four are in the style forwhich Segal is best known.
But the problem is that those remain hismost convincing works.
The original show, organized by MarcoLivingstone for the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, had 71 works;this was whittled down to fit the tighter confines of the JewishMuseum.Segal, who was born in 1924, was in his late 30s when, in 1961,he discovered the possibilities of casting human bodies in plaster.Before that, he had been a brushy, figurative painter mixinginfluences from Matisse and Abstract Expressionism, and he had madesome roughly modeled plaster figures that he posed in front of hispaintings.
At the same time, he was working in New Jersey as achicken farmer and later as a schoolteacher.At one point, Segal realized he didn't have to make everythingwith his own hands but could work as an assemblagist, arrangingthings he had found into theatrical situations.
Other artists,including Robert Rauschenberg, Edward Kienholz and Segal's friendAllan Kaprow, who staged his first Happening at Segal's farm, werealready moving in this direction.
In Segal's case, it was abreakthrough and was what made his figures so striking.Constructed from thin plaster shells made by applying medicalplaster-impregnated bandages to real people, the figures are morelike found objects than expressive representations.
And whenthey're placed in settings built from real-world materials, theeffect is uncanny.There's a resonant ambiguity about these figures.
They're blankbut emotionally fraught, specific but anonymous, ordinary butstrange.
And there's a melancholy romance in these scenes thatcalls to mind the paintings of Edward Hopper.Segal's sculptural portraits, like a full-figure cast of hisdealer Sidney Janis (1967), posed looking at a simulated Mondrianon a wooden easel, are problematic in another way.
The techniquedoesn't allow nuanced responses to personality, and the sculptureslook like what they are: inert shells of real people.As for Segal's play with still lifes and Cubism, or his lateportrait drawings, it's enough to say that he is most compellingwhen he deals with the human figure in three dimensions.The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for useby clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Friday,June 19.
If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt onthe Star's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.Camp is not the desired solution for producers of period pieceslike this, but Anagnost and his forces did not have much choice.The plot is a tangle of regal figures, assumed names and mistakenidentities, and so overblown seem the sentiments to our ears todaythat modernizing this piece for late-20th-century palates wouldprobably mean junking everything except Vivaldi's music.
This mightnot be a bad idea.The self-mocking approach is applied with an appropriately lighttouch.
Lynn Redgrave's narration between numbers is the principledevice, but there were discreet bits of business throughout theevening.It was a lavish application of the opera-in-concert format.
Thesingers often added a crown or a kingly robe to standard eveningdress.
Strewn around the stage were columns, garden statuary andurns sprouting greenery.
Flowers were everywhere.
The seven singersreclined in period armchairs when not at work.An audience that literally filled Tully Hall seemed happy to sitfor three hours, and there were some good singers for it to hear.As Lisea, Julia Anne Wolf's muted mezzo-soprano was a steadyinginfluence.
Rockland Osgood (Tamese) was an attractive tenor.
AsBarzane, Robert Crowe's countertenor bravely attacked Vivaldi'shigh-flying music, suffering only one near meltdown.
As Miranda,Theresa Cincione's soprano worked well at times but was unsuitedfor the part's upper-range adventures.Ellen Rabiner, also a mezzo-soprano, took the title role withgreat emphasis and sureness.
Stephen Bryant was the strong, solidCisardo.
I especially liked the evening's Nicandro, Julie Newell, asoprano whose sustained musicality and sureness with floridfiguration sounded as good as any singing of the evening.Anagnost conducts Vivaldi with a relaxed musicality.
No flashytempos, not much emphasis on spit-and-polish exactitude but ratheran atmosphere of roominess and leisure.
The small orchestra ofassorted modern strings and brass also used recorders andharpsichord.
The Metropolitan Singers and the Greek Choral Societywere a little frayed and blowsy but they got by.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatlyraised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, andincreased funding for health programs.
By Richard Sanchez.
700words.TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of theantitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in politicalscience than as one in public health.
By David M. Shribman.
800words.WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodwardreturns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed USjustice system for her fate.
By Doreen Iudica Vigue.
1000 words.
(aand i coding)WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the firstdefendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in hercase.
By John Ellement.
700 words.
(a and i coding)BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn'twant to be baseball's fulltime commissioner.
But don't be surprisedwhen he accepts it.
By Larry Whiteside.If devotees of the television series come to the film withenough baggage for a six-week safari, perhaps they can deepen theexperience of watching a middling, unfocused action-adventure withbrand-name appeal.But there's a catch: this film isn't tailor-made for trueX-fanatics, because the material has been so broadened toaccommodate the uninitiated.
Trust no one who dreams up an actionsequence in Antarctica for the big screen.The movie teasingly offers the prospect of big developments inthe television X-plot, but all it really does is create a vagueomnibus format for future movie spinoffs.Meanwhile, the movie may raise more questions than it meant towhen it offers glimpses of alien troublemakers.
Reaching forrun-of-the-mill grisly horror, it winds up attributingsophisticated global-domination plans to vicious, long-clawedspacelings who are more prone to screams than schemes.Without making much connection with the end-of-season televisioncliffhanger, the film starts off in Ice Age Texas, where alienslurk in wait for Early Man.
Thirty-seven thousand years later,Texas has heated up, but the aliens' modus operandi hasn't muchchanged.A nicely diabolical early scene shows a little boy savaged bythe invasive virus nicknamed the black oil.
Typically, as it worksto cover too many bases, the film mentions the virus again butnever follows through on one of its best special-effects tricks.Then it's off to Dallas, where FBI agents Mulder (DavidDuchovny) and Scully (Gillian Anderson) trade affectionatewisecracks atop a Dallas office building.
The X-file investigationinto alien activity is now officially closed (as if!
), so they havebeen newly assigned to antiterrorist vigilance.They spot the bomb, but it goes off anyway, shearing off half ofa government building.
That allusion to Oklahoma City could havebeen the film's most shameless or daring aspect, but proves to beneither.The film avoids real political conspiracies in favor of apie-in-the-sky thesis that the building was destroyed to hideevidence of alien activity, and that aliens have subverted theFederal Emergency Management Agency.So a number of series fixtures (like the trio called the LoneGunmen) make minor appearances, while Martin Landau, Blythe Dannerand Armin Mueller-Stahl establish new characters.
(Mueller-Stahl'sGerman mastermind, advocating the strangest of appeasementpolicies, is the most intriguing of these.
)But the touch of X-iness that will matter most to both diehardsand neophytes is the film's promise of heightened conspiratorialactivity between Scully and Mulder.
And here's where it does themost mischievous teasing, since the story's big Antarctic spectaclestill seems warmer than the not-quite-love-affair.The film contrives a fairly strangled declaration of fondnessfrom Mulder, a near-clinch and a wild idea of how to get a heroineout of her clothes.
This last episode, unfolding in a huge set thatresembles a giant carburetor, doesn't actually glimpse Scully inthe nude or goad Mulder into anything more daring than a Sir WalterRaleigh imitation.
But as on-the-job rescue efforts go, it doesqualify as a fetishist's delight.Though both stars are sometimes eclipsed when the film strainsfor action episodes, Duchovny sustains enough cool, deadpanintellect and suppressed passion to give the story a center.
Ms.Anderson has the harsher, more restrictive role, but she plays itwith familiar hardboiled glamour.Directed by Rob Bowman; written by Chris Carter, based on astory by Carter and Frank Spotnitz; director of photography, WardRussell; edited by Stephen Mark; music by Mark Snow; productiondesigner, Christopher Nowak; produced by Carter and DanielSackheim; executive producer, Lata Ryan; co-producer, Spotnitz;released by 20th Century Fox.
Running time: 115 minutes.UNDATED: If Hollywood's current fascination with menacingmeteorites has you hunkered down waiting for the big one to hit, wehave news for you: We're already being bombarded.
Every day.
Bybillions of meteorite fragments tiny enough to be invisible to thenaked eye but numerous enough to add something like 910 metric tonseach year to the weight of the Earth.Nearly all of the meteoritic matter that hits Earth ismicroscopic in size.
But it's only a matter of time, of course,before something big say, the size of your average dining-roomtable survives its fiery journey through Earth's atmosphere andcrashes into our planet.One of the foremost examples in the United States is theso-called Meteor Crater in Arizona, which measures about 4,150 feetacross and 570 feet deep.
There also are some fine specimens innorthern Ontario, according to Dort.Craters are difficult to identify on Earth, as compared to themoon, Dort said, because of foliage or other features covering thesurface.
In addition, he said, many craters have been partly orcompleted eroded away or filled in through human activities andnormal geological processes.Meteorites also generate plenty of interest and have becomecollectors' items.
One type contains a combination of manydifferent elements.
The other type is made largely of iron, with apinch of nickel thrown in.
Most meteorites, but not all, containsome iridium.The largest meteorite ever found in the United States is theWillamette Meteorite, which is 118 inches long, weighs 14 metrictons and is deeply pitted and scarred on one side.
It was found inOregon's Willamette Valley in 1902.They generally are errant bits of asteroids or comets and arepulled out of their orbit by the gravitational force of a nearbyplanet, toward which they eventually hurtle.When it meets Earth's dense atmosphere, a meteorite, travelingat perhaps 20 or 30 miles per second, encounters a lot of friction,which causes it to heat up, melt and break into pieces, Dort said.Sometimes a meteorite will explode upon hitting Earth'satmosphere.
The resulting shards, as well as the force of such anexplosion close to Earth's surface, can create a large hole in theEarth's crust.But really, what are the odds of such a catastrophe in thelifetime of anyone now living?Dort thinks that we must scan the skies for objects headed ourway and that we should work on developing a system for interceptinganything deemed to be on a collision course.My sister looked at me.
I looked at my sister.
I looked atmyself.I walked over and pulled out a top drawer.
The old blond dresserhad been in the dining room for as long as I can remember andI'll be 38 this fall.
So ... maybe 30 years?
32?I clicked one on and scribbled on a scratch pad.
No ink.
Nothingbut that horrible sound of dry tip against dry paper.
And a maze ofcolorless ruts.
I clicked on another.
Nothing.
And another.
Andanother.I picked out a couple of pocketknives and three compasses.
ThenI turned the whole drawer upside-down in the trash bag.The stuff in this one wasn't so worthless.
A black-and-whitegraduation picture of our cousin Jeanne from 1965.
My third-gradeclass picture.
A VFW medallion.
A miniature American flag.
Lotsmore pictures.
Old pictures.She carefully sorts what I pull out.
One box for the personalthings.
Another for stuff that can go to Goodwill or some otherplace like that.The third drawer goes faster.
We're getting down a system here.I pull, she sorts.
She always has been the patient one, theorganized one.At first I feel funny.
Uncomfortable.
Pretty soon, though, I getcaught up in the pulling.
She doesn't say how she feels and Idon't ask because I'm afraid to.
I don't want to know.
Not yet atleast.
Anyway, she's probably caught up in sorting like I am inpulling.She's not mean about it, but she sets me straight.
Like when wewere kids.
The older one telling the younger one exactly how it is.She's right, of course.
We have only just started.
We have thewhole rest of the house.For some odd, silly little reason, I feel so much better aftershe says that.
But my feeling better doesn't have anything to dowith the cleaning.I head for the old blond dresser's mate across the room.
I pullout a top drawer and she starts sorting.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatlyraised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, andincreased funding for health programs.
By Richard Sanchez.
700words.TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of theantitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in politicalscience than as one in public health.
By David M. Shribman.
800words.WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodwardreturns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed USjustice system for her fate.
By Doreen Iudica Vigue.
1000 words.
(aand i coding)WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the firstdefendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in hercase.
By John Ellement.
700 words.
(a and i coding)BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn'twant to be baseball's fulltime commissioner.
But don't be surprisedwhen he accepts it.
By Larry Whiteside.Lyondell Petrochemical Co. agreed Thursday to buy ARCO ChemicalCo.
from the Atlantic Richfield Company for $5.6 billion in cash, adeal that would triple Lyondell's size and make it a major providerof chemicals used in everyday products such as plastics, detergentsand paints.The agreement effectively reunites ARCO Chemical with Lyondell,itself a former Atlantic Richfield subsidiary.
Lyondell will pay$57.75 a share for the outstanding shares of ARCO Chemical, whichis 82.2 percent owned by Atlantic Richfield.The sale was not a surprise since Atlantic Richfield, a majoroil company based in Los Angeles, has been reducing its chemicalbusiness as part of a broader strategy to focus on oil explorationand production.Atlantic Richfield chairman and chief executive Mike Bowlin saidThursday that it was more attractive to sell the whole stake inthat business.
He said the money would be used to reduce debtincurred from the acquisition of Union Texas Petroleum Holdings, anindependent oil company, which Atlantic Richfield agreed to buylast month for $2.47 billion.Atlantic Richfield has also begun an aggressive explorationdrive overseas to find new reserves of oil, since production at itshuge oil fields in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, has been falling.The ARCO Chemical deal is the latest in a series of asset salesby Atlantic Richfield.
Last September the oil company sold theremainder of its stake in Lyondell, and reached a deal to sell itscoal business to a New York investment firm last February.Shares of ARCO Chemical surged on word of an impending deal,first reported Thursday by The Wall Street Journal.
ARCO Chemicalfinished at $57.0625 a share, up $6.50, or 12.9 percent.
Lyondellrose $1.25, to $29, while Atlantic Richfield fell $1.625, to$78.8125.Lyondell, based in Houston, had sales of $2.3 billion last year.It makes basic chemicals such as ethylene and propylene, which areused in a wide variety of consumer products.ARCO Chemical, based in Newton Square, Pa., had sales of $4billion last year.
It is a major producer of propylene oxide, usedto make a range of products such as coolants, paints and cosmetics.Frank Mitsch, an analyst of the chemical industry for DeutscheBank Securities, said the acquisition reflected shrewd timing bySmith, since prices for chemical assets have been in a cyclicaldecline and were likely to rise.Lyondell has been seeking to cut costs and improve earnings byentering into joint ventures with other chemical makers.
In onesuch venture last March, Lyondell joined Millennium Chemicals Inc.to buy the petrochemical business from Occidental Petroleum Corp.for $425 million.The news Wednesday comes one day after Payless announced itsfirst positive quarter in a year and a half.
It reportedsecond-quarter net income of $732,000, compared with a loss of$13.2 million in the same period last year.Barron takes over the positions once held by David Stanley,former chief executive officer, and Susan Stanton, formerpresident.
Stanley and Stanton left Payless in January shortlyafter a new board was formed.Donald E. Roller, who has been acting chief executive officerand president, will stay on as a board member.Zellers lured Barron away from Wal-Mart, where he was seniorvice president and chief operating officer of Wal-MartInternational and where he played a major role in Wal-Mart'saggressive expansion into Canada.Before Wal-Mart entered Canada in 1994, Zellers accounted for 70percent of Hudson's Bay profits.
By this spring, it had dropped to36 percent.Chisholm said a lot of turnaround programs that Barron initiatednever were implemented, partly because of new management atHudson's Bay, including the appointment of Bill Fields, anotherformer top Wal-Mart executive, as president and chief executiveofficer.In any case, Barron left Zellers earlier this year because heand his family wanted to return to the United States, Paylessspokeswoman Linda Ward said.Before working in Wal-Mart's international division, Barron wasa vice president of operations for Wal-Mart's U.S. stores.
Barronjoined Wal-Mart after working 20 years at Hills Department StoresInc.
in Massachusetts, where he rose to executive vice president ofstore operations.This room where I work has a door with glass panes, and shelooked through the glass at the knob I was holding.That's certainly one way to look at it and that other three-timeU.S.
Open groomsman, Tom Lehman, who has been no worse than tiedfor the lead after the first three rounds of the last three Opens,yet failed to even equal par on the final Sundays.Theirs are the voices of near-winning-experience at this 98thU.S.
Open, which opened Thursday on the Olympic Club's Lake Course.And, in a game where the mind can be the enemy, both golfers havespun sad moments into positive memories.They didn't lose the Open, they'd tell you: They nearly won it,and came away with nothing less than the power to win it this time.Montgomerie, 34, has been the favorite of the media to win here,perhaps because he sounded eerily like Mark O'Meara did on the eveof his first majors victory, the 1998 Masters.But he was crying behind the 18th green last year after ErnieEls made par to beat him by a stroke.
Just a hole earlier,Montgomerie stood over a 5-foot birdie putt that would have tiedhim for the lead.
He stood and stood, waiting for the rowdyAmericans at Congressional Country Club in Maryland to hush.
Andthen he missed the putt.Montgomerie's recent successes include finishing in the top 10in three of his five PGA Tour events this year and all five of hisEuropean Tour events, which helps explain his confidence in hisgame and his chances here.Lehman, 38, has been having a different kind of year.
He'sfinished in the top 10 in only three of his 14 events and won none,but was buoyed (also soaked) by a third-place finish at wetWestchester last weekend.Lehman, like Montgomerie, trailed Els by a shot at the 17th teelast year.
But he followed a perfect drive by splashing a 7-ironinto a water hazard, and wound up finishing third.BEIJING The Chinese government has formally spelled out itsradical new housing policy, under which the hallowed right ofworkers to virtually cost-free apartments will be ended this year.Under the new guidelines, detailed this week in the state-run newsmedia, most of China's urban residents will be required either tobuy their homes or pay much higher rents.The wholesale change in housing is widely seen as potentiallyone of the most far-reaching of China's economic reforms, one thatcan spur entire new service industries, like home repair anddecoration and mortgage banking, as well as create a growing classof independent homeowners.The subsidy of housing and other social welfare benefits hasbeen a crushing burden on companies here, Huang said, and must beended if Chinese enterprises are to compete globally.A freer housing market will also promote the development ofprivate enterprise and labor mobility, he said.The new housing policy will be highlighted during PresidentClinton's visit to China, which starts next week, with a visit tohomeowners.In some cities, the shift toward private home-ownership hadalready begun in the last few years.
Some work units began sellingapartments to workers, and stopped allocating housing to newemployees.
Another factor has been the gradual spread of privatecompanies and foreign joint ventures, which provide far fewersocial benefits like housing to their workers.Then, last March, in his first statement as prime minister, ZhuRongji declared that the longstanding system of subsidized housingwould quickly be ended altogether.City governments and work units began hashing out rules for thetransition, including purchase prices and restraints on resale andrental.This week, at a closed three-day conference of public officials,national guidelines for the change were spelled out, but provincesand local governments were given leeway in the timing and specificrules, according to reports Thursday in the state-run press.Among other things, the government is pushing banks to offerhome mortgages, a novel concept here.
Rents, for those who do notbuy, will multiply by several times, but subsidies will still begiven to those with the lowest incomes.In general, purchase prices are being set at what might appearto be bargain levels $10,000 may be typical for a two-bedroomapartment in Beijing with deductions according to length ofservice in state agencies or companies, and the age of thedwelling.But with many urban families earning only a few thousand dollarsa year, if that, the prices are still a strain and since March,housing questions have preoccupied many.Most people seem enthusiastic about the idea of home ownership,and many have been scrambling to pull together down payments ofperhaps 30 percent.But the relative financial merits of the offered choices haveoften seemed confusing, and people are rightly worried about futuremaintenance costs in poorly constructed buildings.
In Beijing, aninitial deadline of July 1 for commitments to purchase atsubsidized prices had to be postponed until the end of the year.Rao Jianhong, 32, and his wife, Li Juan, 31, both assistantprofessors at Beijing Business College and parents of a 4-year-oldgirl, said they were delighted to have the chance to buy theirtwo-bedroom apartment for just over $10,000.
With their extraincome from teaching night classes, Rao said, they would just beable to make their mortgage payments of $120 a month.Once they own or have rental rights to their apartments,independently of their workplace, people will be more free to seekdifferent jobs, work in private industry or move, for example.Debate continues in some work units over who should be able tobuy or rent newer apartments, and whether resales should eventuallybe opened to any customers.
Work-unit housing is often clusteredaround the company or even inside the work unit's walled compound.He and his wife now pay rent of $8.50 a month.
They live oncombined pensions of $182 a month, and worry about how high theirrent may go.Though the new policy is a giant step toward a free market,rules commonly dictate across-the-board sale prices with littleregard for any market, and impose restrictions, such as five-yearmoratoriums, on the resale or legal subletting of units.The restrictions will undercut the broader benefits of the newpolicy, said Huang of the World Bank.
But he predicted thatimpatient purchasers will prove a strong force.I spent a day last week at a management training seminar inwhich a communication expert talked about all the reasons why menare from Mars and women are from Venus.
Or is it the other wayaround?No, it wasn't the guy who wrote that book which, by the way, Iheaved across my bedroom floor in frustration at the apparentlyintractable gender differences.Then we go to work.
And surprise, surprise the two gendersmight as well be speaking separate languages, we hear each other sodifferently.Take meetings.
All the former little boys who grew uppracticing team sports so they had all their strategies in placebefore the game wouldn't dream of going into meetings withouttheir teammates aligned and the agenda set.The former little girls who grew up playing house and puttingclothes on dolls and taking them off again just for the pleasure ofthe process think a meeting is for talking.
There's no strategyfor dolls, right?The former little boys go to the meeting because the boss calledit, not because they want to discuss things.
Their teams areprimed.
The former little girls, on the other hand, actually thinkthey're going to talk about something.The top-ranking former little boy makes a declarative statement.The former little girls nod their heads, not necessarily becausethey agree but just to show him they're listening politely.Then one of the former little girls asks a question.
The formerlittle boys shift in their seats.
The head guy wishes the impudentwench would be a good team player and not question the coach.
Andwhy had she nodded her head, anyway, if she didn't agree?Pffft.
Write her off, some of the former little boys think tothemselves.
She's so tentative.
Unsure.
Wimpy.But most of the former little boys figure the boss is going towin, so they cast their vote with the winner.
It's a slam dunk.
Twoof the little girls also vote with the boss.
End of meeting.The former little boys no matter who voted for what headacross the street for a beer.
It's a strategic-alliance Kodakmoment.One of the former little girls isn't speaking to another becauseshe feels betrayed by a friend.
Another sheds conflict-inspiredtears in the restroom.
Two continue talking at their desks.
(Thanks to Pat Heim, author//researcher//seminar presenter, forcolumn fuel on how team sports and playing dolls prepare people forthe workplace.
)This glumly amusing effort from writer//director Pal Sletaunefairly oozes Scandinavian angst, from the pasty, beard-stubbledvisages of its characters to the slumlike buildings in which itunfolds and the unrelenting gray atmosphere, which baths everyscene in a sort of dull, color-draining fluorescent light.It's so dank and grim and Orwellian, in fact, that the film'svery joylessness becomes an intentional joke.Roy (Robert Skjaerstad) is a furtive, sullen, thoroughlymiserable fellow.
He's a postman, but you can forget the oldrain-snow-dark-of-night bit.
When his bag gets too heavy, he simplydumps the excess mail in a railway tunnel.
Nor is he beyondrelieving his boredom by steaming open his customers' letters andlooking into their lives.When a young woman, Line (Andrine Saether), forgetfully leavesher apartment keys dangling in her mailbox lock, Roy can't helphimself.
He snatches them, sneaks upstairs and invades her home,snooping through her cupboards, stealing a photo of her from ascrapbook and, most intriguingly, stumbling across a plastic trashsack filled with cash.He is, in fact, taking a nap when Line returns.
Hiding beneathher bed, he's got a ringside seat for her attempted suicide.
Aftera moment's indecision, Roy pulls the unconscious woman from herbath, phones rescuers, then flees before they arrive.But having saved Line's life, Roy feels weirdly obligated to her and romantically stirred.
Before long he is defending the youngwoman from her venal boyfriend, George (Per Egil Aske).
The moneyin the bag is a result of George's criminal activities, and when itturns up missing, Roy has to play the hero.No wonder Roy decides to risk his neck to save Line.
What withthe deadly dull world around him, flirting with death may be theonly way he'll ever feel alive.Dedee, played with sneering voluptuousness by Christina Ricci,doesn't like movie cliches.
But then Dedee doesn't like much ofanything, including those of us in the audience, whom she addresseswith undisguised contempt.This prime slice of 16-year-old trailer-court trash is the mostoutrageous character in writer//director Don Roos' comedy of badmanners, but she manages to bring out edgy behavior in just abouteveryone she encounters.As the film begins she's run away from her Louisiana home (afterdesecrating the grave of her molesting stepfather) and high-tailedit to Indiana to pay an unannounced visit to her older half-brotherBill (Martin Donovan), whom she has seen only once before.Immediately zeroing in on the weakest person in sight, she getsto work on the slow-witted Matt, bullying him into exploring hislatent heterosexuality.Before long Dedee has fled with Matt to California aftercleaning out Bill's bank account.
The jilted Bill and Lucia givechase, only to discover the very swollen Dedee cheating on Mattwith her old boyfriend from Louisiana, a violence-prone Christianfundamentalist (William Scott Lee).Although it's got some flat patches and erratic pacing, Roos'directing debut is noteworthy not just for flirting withoutrageousness, but for embracing it.Moreover, the movie exudes a pull-no-punches gay sensibilityeven as it refuses to let characters off the hook just becausethey're gay.The weird thing is that despite the mantle of cynicism in whichhe drapes his effort, Roos is below the surface quite charitable tohis characters even the hair-raising Dedee.Here's a straightforward synopsis: Angst-riddled policedetective Nishi (Takeshi) is besieged in both his professional andpersonal lives.
His wife (Kayoko Kishimoto) is dying of leukemia,his partner Horibe (Ren Osugi) is paralyzed after being shot by asuspect.
Nishi also is being badgered by loan sharks from whom hehas borrowed money to pay for his wife's hospitalization.In the course of the film the normally unsentimental Nishi willdevote himself to his wife, inspire the embittered Horibe to takeup painting, ruthlessly track down the punk responsible for hispartner's plight, and bloodily eradicate the gangsters who keeppopping up to demand their money.At the center is Nishi, played by Takeshi as something of amystery man.
At times he seems as easily distracted as a boredschoolboy; at other times you'd swear he's autistic, so incapableis he of relating fully with another person.
He hardly says a word,preferring to grunt.
He's got a bothersome facial tic that suggeststhere's plenty boiling under his blank surface.Whatever is percolating deep inside, it's nasty.
With little orno provocation Nishi explodes in horrifying violence.
And yet, whenhe and his ailing wife go on a long-delayed vacation undoubtedlytheir last Nishi amuses her by throwing himself into sillytouristy behavior.
His efforts at comedy are clumsy butendearing.
Clearly, there's love in there as well.SLIAMMON INDIAN RESERVE, British Columbia One morningrecently, Evan Adams, a 31-year-old American Indian actor, wastelling stories in the small living room of his parents' home onthis beautiful, heavily wooded stretch of the Canadian coast.Surrounded by his mother, three sisters and a brother, heexplained in his singsong voice how he had terrified some of theparticipants in a first-aid course he had taken by reacting withpassionate alarm toward a doll that was supposedly choking and itsinflatable mother.This gentle gibe brought gales of laughter from Adams' family,and it was just one episode in a day of wordplay among a group ofpeople clearly comfortable communicating through sometimes bawdyhumor and irony.
That, of course, would be unremarkable in such aclose-knit family except for the fact that Indians have generallybeen depicted in popular culture, and especially in movies, asearnest and stoic, sometimes pathetic and at times bloodthirsty,but rarely wry.This movie, which was directed by Chris Eyre, 28, is the worknot just of a group of creative people with full hearts but ofaggressive achievers determined to stake their claim to high groundon the American cultural map.He said in an interview that one of his primary goals was totake away from so-called white experts the responsibility fordescribing contemporary Indian culture.
His aim, he said, is not toavoid criticism of Indian society but to make sure that it isIndians doing the criticizing and interpreting.But beyond all that, Adams whose grandparents and severalaunts died of tuberculosis will begin medical school at theUniversity of Calgary this fall, to fulfill a goal of bringingsomething back to his reservation, a hamlet of 650 people about 100miles north of Vancouver amid mountains, towering cedars and richblue waters.But the story is consistently enlivened by a self-deprecatingsense of humor, one of the most enduring Indian culturalcharacteristics, particularly on the reservations, according to themakers of the film.But the film has a far different sensibility.
The characters areangry, but they're also silly, loving, careless, vulnerable, wittyand persistent.
They play basketball.
They laugh at their squalor.At one point the only way they can go forward is by driving acar backward.
They mock Indian stereotypes, and they embrace them.In fact, they are much like the group of people who made the film.Eyre, a graduate of the film school at New York University, is aCheyenne-Arapaho who was adopted as a baby and brought up by awhite family in Oregon.
He has spent the last few years trackingdown his biological parents and embracing his Indian heritage.Beach, 25, an Ojibway from north of Winnipeg, bluntly describedhow much of his own personal history was reflected in that of hischaracter, Victor, who is haunted by the absence of a parent.
Hesaid the defining element of his early life was the death of hismother, who was killed by a drunken driver when he was 8; she waseight months pregnant at the time.
His father drowned two monthslater.And then there is Adams, who has been almost frenetic in hisefforts both to investigate his culture through writing and actingand to serve his people as a doctor.
His parallel career pathsreflect a tension that runs through the lives of many Indians, hesaid: whether to concentrate on articulating a distinct culturalvision to the world outside the reservations or to focus on theirown people.Adams is still undecided on which path will win out in his case,but he seems to be leaning in one direction.Adams' father, Les, the captain of a tugboat, said he had longcontemplated these issues.
As he sat bobbing on his boat, heexplained that he knew many years ago that Evan was capable ofextraordinary accomplishments.
And he said that he had sternlyinstructed his son to focus his ambition on the world beyond thereservation.But, he admitted, Evan made it clear early on that he had hisown ideas about heritage and creativity.
As a teen-ager, forexample, Evan learned and performed traditional dances that hadbeen little seen for years.
Les Adams recalled bringing a friend,the chief of a nearby tribe, to one of Evan's performances andbeing struck to see his friend cry at one point.Evan did go away to a private high school when he was 14 andthen to McGill University in Montreal.
His father said he wascrushed when Evan announced that he was leaving McGill after ayear, to pursue acting.Evan said that part of his struggle over the years had come fromhis mixed feelings about living in a dominantly white society.He described his swings from one world to the other whileshowing a reporter an extraordinary collection of totem poles,masks and other ceremonial objects preserved in the glass andconcrete Museum of Anthropology on the University of BritishColumbia campus.
He insisted that he was trying to find a way ofrevering the past while shaping a new kind of future that was trueto both the Indian spirit and the modern spirit.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.TOBACCO-HEALTH (Undated) -- The tobacco bill would have greatlyraised the cost of cigarettes, possibly deterring teens, andincreased funding for health programs.
By Richard Sanchez.
700words.TOBACCO-ANALYSIS (Washington) --- The collapse of theantitobacco crusade was more significant as a lesson in politicalscience than as one in public health.
By David M. Shribman.
800words.WOODWARD-RETURNS (Manchester, England) -- Louise Woodwardreturns to England and proclaims her innocence, blaming a flawed USjustice system for her fate.
By Doreen Iudica Vigue.
1000 words.
(aand i coding)WOODWARD-PUBLICITY (Undated) -- Louise Woodward wasn't the firstdefendant to claim pre-trial publicity prejudiced the jury in hercase.
By John Ellement.
700 words.
(a and i coding)BBO-SELIG-COMMENT (Undated) Bud Selig keeps saying he doesn'twant to be baseball's fulltime commissioner.
But don't be surprisedwhen he accepts it.
By Larry Whiteside.BEIJING Every Friday afternoon, dozens of late-model cars pullup to the iron gate of the 3-year-old 21st-Century ExperimentalSchool, one of this city's new private schools.In a city where sturdy black bicycles are still the favored modeof transportation and horse-drawn carts ply the streets, men insuits and women wearing diamonds alight from Fords, Jeeps and BMWs,rushing excitedly into the building to pick up their children some as young as 5 who board at the school from Monday to Fridayat a cost of $2,000 a year.Like a phoenix rising from the ashes of communism, the last fewyears have seen the a stunning growth of a flourishing Chinesemiddle class.
Ten years ago, this group did not exist, but now itscore of independent businessmen has been joined by a growing numberof private-sector lawyers, artists and employees of joint-venturecompanies.It is first defined by what its members have: computers,microwaves, interior decorators and, increasingly, cars and homes.On Saturday nights they go to concerts and in winter they vacationin Thailand.
But the rapid accumulation of material things has leftits psychological mark as well, infusing this group with a kind ofindependence, and carefree optimism, that has not existed in Chinafor decades.There is no one statistic that defines this group, which broadlyincludes both company presidents (who seem to have it all) andgraduating college students who've just bought their first computer(and want it all, someday).
They are people who work hard for whatthey achieve, for the most part without the family ties to theCommunist Party leadership that have long defined China's mostprivileged class.The group portrait is best created like a pointillist paintingfrom scores of small facts: 10 years ago, 95 percent of passengerson airline flights in China were foreigners, but today, 95 percentare Chinese.
In 1990 there were no cellular phones in China, nowthere are almost 17 million.The middle class is admired by college students who hope to joinits ranks and, as of last year, has even been embraced by theCommunist Party for its contributions to China's modernization.
TheChinese government has even arranged for President Clinton to meetprivate businessmen during his state visit, which begins next week.Last year, Fang was sent to represent China at an internationalbusiness conference and was tapped to be a delegate to the ChinesePeople's Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body ofdistinguished non-Communist Party members.Fang and his wife, who teaches at Beijing University, each havetheir own cars.
For next year's vacation, they are deliberatingbetween Europe and Australia.
They have donated money to establishuniversity scholarships and children's libraries in Beijing, amongother causes.
And, although they now live in a one-bedroomapartment provided by Beijing University, they are contemplatingownership once they have a child.Of course, his has been a complicated transformation, given thecountry's egalitarian tradition under communism, because the waveof prosperity that has created a middle class has not carried allChinese equally.
For every 30-year-old entrepreneur who has movedup in social status, there are many more workers laid off fromailing state-owned factories who have fallen.The income gap between China's rich and poor is widening fast.In Beijing last year, the average annual salary for bosses ofprivate companies was about $8,000 and for workers only $1,000,said Dai Jianzheng, a sociologist at the Beijing Academy of SocialScience.
The difference is even greater in the countryside.She said that when her husband, a university professor, took the$15,000, in cash, that she was paid for a screenplay to a localbank recently, the other customers cursed him.Although Chinese entrepreneurs began accumulating money in thelate 1980s, it was not until the mid-'90s that the accoutrements ofmiddle-class life cell phones, microwaves and a wide range ofcars were readily available for purchase in China.
Then themiddle class really took off.Some of the earliest entrants to the middle class, generallyyoung high-tech entrepreneurs who quit state enterprises to startprivate companies nearly a decade ago, are now wealthy by anycountry's standards.The Dyne Group, with revenues of $240 million last year, nowsells computer systems and pharmaceuticals, and is branching outinto furniture.Ms.
Yan and Zhang live a life unthinkable a decade ago, with twoMercedes, one Lincoln, one Ford and a villa in Beijing, a countryhouse and a third in Freemont, Calif., where their company has itsAmerican office.
Although Zhang would not disclose his own income,he said that many of his senior executives now own houses.
Thecouple have been to Europe and Singapore, and only their busy workschedule keeps them from traveling more often.Like many newly rich Chinese they seem vaguely uncomfortablewhen asked about wealth.
Their favorite activity remains walking inthe mountains near Beijing and, following a common Chinesepractice, their 9-year-old daughter lives with her grandmother inanother part of Beijing, where she attends a public school.For most Chinese the move into the middle class is still astep-by-step process, with each choosing the components ofmiddle-class life he can afford.At 8 a.m. on a recent Saturday morning a group of 20 friends andcolleagues boarded a bus for a resort near Baihuashan, for aweekend of hiking, boating and karaoke.
Young professionals intheir 20s and 30s, they had each paid $50 to join this rite of themiddle class.Three rows behind him, Xu Guangli, an administrator and a jointventure company, and Sun Huawei, an assistant to a laborarbitrator, both 24, discussed their weekend plans.
They can notafford to go abroad, they said, but try to take weekend trips eachmonth, either on organized tours or by renting cars with friends.Fei Zinggang, the hand-shaking manager of Tai He Travel, saidhis small state-owned travel agency started offering weekend tourslast June when it sensed a market demand and in peak season nowsends out up to 80 travelers a weekend.The parents at the 21st-Century Experimental School say theyselected the school for its emphasis on creative thinking andindependence not traditional Chinese values.Zang, the real-estate entrepreneur, who is an avid reader, saidthat one of the biggest excitements for him is no longer having tocheck the price of books before buying them.Ms.
Zhang, the writer, sounds like an excited teenager as shedescribes the sense of freedom that has come with her car: trips togalleries and to plays, carefree jaunts around a homeland that shehad never explored before.TOKYO In a few weeks, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto willface nationwide elections as he presides over the worst recessionin more than 50 years, a limp stock market and the highestunemployment rate since records began to be kept.Yet experts overwhelmingly expect his governing LiberalDemocratic Party to do very well.
The latest polls show it withmore than five times as much support as any other party.Now Hashimoto is more likely to do better than ever, forPresident Clinton handed him a political gift on Wednesday byagreeing to a joint U.S.-Japanese campaign to bolster the saggingyen.
Whether or not the jawboning and billions of dollars inforeign-exchange intervention succeed in propping up the yen, theywill almost certainly succeed in propping up Hashimoto.The premise of Clinton's decision to go to Hashimoto's aid wasthat Japan would take, as Clinton put it, aggressive and bold stepsthat would justify a higher rate for the yen.
But many analystshere say that the Japanese political process militates againstfundamental change and that Hashimoto's relative popularitysuggests that the public wants someone like him, a repairman forthe old system rather than an architect for a new one.All this raises some puzzling questions about the Japanesepolitical process.
In most countries there is a built-in correctivemechanism when an economy veers off course.
Disgruntled votersevict the old team and choose new leaders who promise to do thingsdifferently.
Yet despite eight years of economic stagnation theJapanese political system has not responded in that way.Certainly Japan does not have the feel of a country in a severedownturn.
There are few homeless people, soup kitchens,bankruptcies or vacant buildings.
Although there are somedifferences in measurements, the record unemployment rate in Japanis still 4.1 percent, less than the 4.3 rate in the United States.An old saying defines a recession as when your neighbor is laidoff.
When you are laid off it is a depression.
By thosedefinitions, for the great majority of Japanese this is still not arecession.The gulf in perceptions inside and outside Japan on theseriousness of the economic situation here is difficult toexaggerate.To Americans and many Asians these days it sometimes seems thatJapan's economy is burning and is threatening to ignite all of Asiaand, perhaps, the United States and Europe, as well.
For thosefearing a global economic conflagration, nothing is moreinfuriating than the sight of Hashimoto passively watching theflames and seeming to do little more than blithely insisting thatthe fire will eventually subside.In a similar situation Nero fiddled, but not for eight years that is the kind of grumbling one hears from U.S. officials thesedays.To Japanese officials the foreign carping seems foolish andpetulant.
Some say the U.S. government is simply nervous about itsown bubble economy and is looking for a scapegoat to blame whenstock prices inevitably collapse.
And most Japanese say the risksare exaggerated.Moreover, many Japanese insist that their country is seriouslyaddressing the recession and the Asian crisis.
They note that theJapanese government has begun a huge stimulus package, the biggestin the nation's history, and that the government has contributedfar more to Asian bailouts than the United States.In any case, for all the bewilderment and anger at Japan'sreluctance to do more to stimulate its economy, Hashimoto'sbehavior, viewed from a Japanese perspective, makes some sense andappears in keeping with the public mood.
After all, he justcelebrated the Liberal Democratic Party's latest victory, on Sundayin a parliamentary by-election.That was the sixth consecutive victory in by-elections for theLiberal Democrats, and polls suggest that they will also do verywell in elections for the upper house on July 12.
The upper houseis much less significant than the lower house, but the electionwill nonetheless be an important test of sentiment, and Hashimotoseems ready to pass with flying colors.A poll this week in the Yomiuri newspaper, taken just before theintervention to support the yen, found that the support forHashimoto's government had fallen, to 30 percent.
But perhaps moreimportant, 29 percent of those interviewed said they stillsupported the Liberal Democrats, compared to 5.5 percent for theleading opposition group, the Democratic Party.The Liberal Party, which advocates precisely the far-reachingeconomic reorganization and stimulus policies that Washington wouldlike to see in Japan, had the support of 1.7 percent.There have been widespread hints that Hashimoto will be moreaggressive in tackling Japan's financial problems immediately afterthe election.
But that, too, tells something about the public mood.Instead of promising before the election to address the economicmess and the mountain of bad bank loans, the speculation is that hewill tackle these issues only after he no longer has to face thevoters.Morse argues that Japan suffers from cronyism and structuraleconomic problems quite similar to those of South Korea andIndonesia.
Those countries were bailed out by the InternationalMonetary Fund on the condition that they accept painfulreorganization.But Japan has not collapsed in the way that South Korea orIndonesia did, so Morse said he believed that the political processwould not lead to a fundamental overhaul of the economy.WASHINGTON India has produced countless styles of manuscriptpainting.
Among the most poetic, and certainly the most popularoutside India itself, are those that emerged in the 17th century inthe Hindu Rajput kingdoms nestled in the remote mountain valleys ofthe Himalayan foothills.Paintings from the Punjab hills, or Pahari paintings, with theirpalettes of vegetable green, dusky orange, and afterglow lavender,are soaked in a spirit of place.
In them, days are lambent, nightshushed and star-strewn.
Figures have a serene perfection.
Slenderwomen wear neat, fitted dresses.
Men and gods, adhering to anultrastylish ideal of sartorial machismo, sport garlands andturbans and pearl-drop earrings.If ever there was a peaceable kingdom, it would seem, this isit.
Yet for all their lyricism, these paintings are often shotthrough with unsettled passions.
Characters depicted are skittishlyseductive or gripped by panic.
Many are obsessed by one overarchingtheme: the heartache and joy of religious and erotic desire.A few of the paintings in the show, which has been organized byVidya Dehejia, associate director and chief curator of the Sacklerand the Freer Gallery of Art, are from the plains of Rajasthan innorthwestern India.But most are from the hills, and many can be traced to thekingdom of Kangra, where a single royal patron, Raja Sansar Chand(who reigned from 1775 to 1823), nurtured a distinctive housestyle, one that blended Mughal naturalism and stylized Rajputtraditions.Chand was an ardent worshipper of the god Vishnu, who appearedin the guise of the blue-skinned cowherd, the deity Krishna; hiscult was widespread in aristocratic circles.
And Krishna himself isthe subject of nearly every work here.
For without exception thesepaintings are illustrations for love poetry in which he plays acentral role.In many of the poems and illustrations, a second femalecharacter appears, the sakhi or the companion to the heroine.
Andshe, in her various roles as adviser, comforter, go-between andwitness, provides the thematic link in the Sackler exhibition.While he lies on the ground, listless with longing, on one sideof the picture, the sakhi kneels gesturing before a nervous Radhaon the other.
Meanwhile, the landscape around them is vibrant withexpectation, from the outsize lotuses bobbing away in a pool to thethickets of trees in every shade of green, their branches swollenwith flowers.But the romantic meeting is tantalizingly delayed.
In an ovalpainting from around 1780-90, the heroine is seen wandering off ina drugged, somnambulistic daze under moonlight, trailing her shadowbehind her, as the sakhi dashes in, having tracked down her youngcharge by her fragrance alone.In another image, Krishna sits by himself in a kind ofspoiled-child funk on a hillside, his garland and cowherd's staffthrown down, as a sapling bends over him, sympathetically echoinghis dejection.In this beautiful image, the trees surrounding the god take on atwisting, embracing sexualized life of their own, as ifanticipating the rapturous activity soon to follow.
And sucheroticism, explicit or merely implied, accounts for much of thecharm of these paintings.Scene after scene has a hectic, grand-opera tension, withplaintive arias, love duets and mad scenes in which charactersassume codified gestures of desire and despair.
And when lovefinally sings out at full cry, its force is overpowering.
Womendance like bacchantes under a night sky; Krishna and Radha makelove on a bed of leaves.
And in one of the show's earliest works,dated around 1640 and from the state of Mewar in Rajasthan, theentire universe seems to have burst into flower.Although art from both Mewar and Kangra is well known, dozens ofother Rajput courts supported workshops and produced distinctivepainting styles, many of which have yet to be discovered orproperly defined by scholars.
Women may well have played animportant role in manuscript production, both as audiences and ascommissioners of books, and this possibility gives paintings likethose at the Sackler a particularly provocative edge.Yet in the end, it is the sakhi who functions as the stand-infor most viewers of these paintings.
She is part of the drama, butalso removed.
She approaches the events as a concerned friend, butalso a voyeur, an amused attendant in the school of love.Through her eyes we see the story shift back and forth betweensacred and profane.
One minute Krishna is God, his blue skinsymbolic of infinite space.
The next, he is a pouty LeonardoDiCaprio-style princeling peeved not to get his way with his ladyof choice.Such shifting expressive temperatures are found everywhere inIndian art, and Ms. Dehejia has splendidly suggested their range ina modestly scaled exhibition much enlivened by wall panels carryingexcerpts from the poems illustrated in each painting.CPT-DISNEY-NET (Los Angeles) Mickey Mouse wants to make iteasy for non-techies to go cyber-surfing.
Disney announced Thursdayspending $320 million to buy into Web search specialist InfoseekCorp.
with the idea of attracting those who don't use the Net.
ByDave McNary.TEKELEC-SHARES (Los Angeles) Shares of Calabasas, Calif.-basedTekelec, a mid-size communications component specialist, fell over10 percent Thursday on concern over a possible dip in the company'ssecond-quarter orders.
By Ben Sullivan.WASHINGTON As legislation to overhaul the nation's schoolsmoves toward final approval in Congress, President Clinton and theRepublican majority on Capitol Hill remain far apart on a keyissue, frozen in the ice of uncompromising positions.In this showdown, the president's veto pen will temporarily win,and should.
But a recent Wisconsin Supreme Court decision hasenergized the opposition and suggests that the stalemate could beas permanently damaging as that over abortion rights.Although the two sides have many philosophical and practicaldifferences over education, the most contentious question is thatof taxpayer-funded vouchers to encourage children of low-incomefamilies to attend private secular or religious schools.Proposed tax-free savings accounts of up to $2,000 a year forschool expenses for families of all incomes, including tuition atparochial schools, are a variation on the same theme.The GOP devotion to the concept of subsidizing parents to fleethe public schools is matched in fervor only by the president'sconviction that such a shift would undermine the free public schoolsystem he rightly considers a fundamental bulwark of democracy.
Itwould divert limited public resources in an always-tight federalbudget.On Thursday the House approved an education bill that includesprovisions to pay for tax-free savings accounts and vouchers,deliberately defying the president's threat to veto the entire billif they are included.
The Senate is due to vote on the measuresoon.Another recent measure provided for vouchers specifically forlow-income families in the District of Columbia.
Clinton vetoed it,as promised.The anti-tobacco bill blocked Wednesday in the Senate includedschool vouchers for students who have been crime victims on schoolgrounds.
The overall measure was popular with Democrats and was themost likely vehicle for Republicans to sneak vouchers past Clinton,but it is a dead issue now.Meanwhile, the Wisconsin Supreme Court held that voucherprograms can get around the constitutional separation of church andstate by giving public tuition funds directly to parents ratherthan to the parochial schools.
This dodge enabled the court tointerpret the program's primary purpose as helping parents makewider choices rather than advancing religion.The U.S. Supreme Court will ultimately resolve the issue.
It isunrealistic to believe that taxpayer subsidies would not promote anew elitist state-supported private education system with religiousovertones.
But the high bench, in its legal isolation, has notalways understood how scholarly decisions impact on real life.Voucher proponents claim private schools do a better job ofteaching children than the public schools, and maybe they do.But private schools have no public accountability.
They can beselective.
They can reject for admission students with low gradesor troubled personalities.They can expel unsatisfactory pupils.
They can pay whateversalaries they want to their teachers.
They do not have to providespecial instruction to disabled students.If a parochial school wants to promote a specific religion, thestate cannot say no.They provide a great, stimulating social mixing bowl rich andpoor, clever and dense, together in class.
It's the American way.In some places, usually stable middle-class communities, thisideal still works.
Where it doesn't, where cops must patrol thecorridors, the public schools ought to be fixed.
The way to do itis by giving them more care and attention, not less.SAINT-DENIS, France Referees remained on center stage at theWorld Cup Thursday.
After FIFA president-elect Sepp Blatterdeclared a further crackdown on rough tackles, referees ejectedfive players in two games.The remarks from Blatter have created an atmosphere of nearhysteria.
Five red cards were shown Thursday.
Any close call becamesubject to the strongest judgment.
And if Blatter wanted someone tocarry out his directive, he found the right person in Mexicanreferee Arturo Brizio Carter during France's 4-0 victory over SaudiArabia.Brizio Carter, who red-carded Italy's GianFranco Zola at FoxboroStadium in the 1994 World Cup, ejected Mohammed Al Khlaiwi of SaudiArabia early in the game and Zinedine Zidane of France midwaythrough the second half.They won in style, exploiting great spaces in the Saudi defenseand their physical superiority, enhanced by the 18th-minuteexpulsion of Al Khlaiwi for a tackle on Bixente Lizarazu.The Saudis could not contain Zidane.
And when the team needed aninjection of midfield inspiration, Youri Djorkaeff entered early inthe second half.The second goal seemed inevitable.
The Saudis, hampered by theejection and discouraged by France's back four, could not sustainattacks.
This allowed French defenders to advance.
Lilian Thurammade a strong run on the right side and drilled a cross throughMohammed Al Dayea's hands.
David Trezeguet, who had several chancesafter replacing the injured Christophe Dugarry (right hamstring) inthe first half, finally converted with a header from the goal area.The Saudis, a finesse team influenced greatly by the Brazilianstyle, were unable to threaten with 10 men.
When they attempted toretaliate, their defense was exposed further.France could have scored several more goals.
The third cameafter goalkeeper Fabian Barthez's long clearance was taken byHenry, who outraced the tiring Saudi defense in the 35th minute.Seven minutes later, Lizarazu scored off a play started byDjorkaeff.Zidane was ejected in the 27th minute after colliding with adefender and appearing to step on him.
Zidane will miss Wednesday'sgame against Denmark in Lyon.But instead of allowing the players and teams to be in thespotlight, Blatter and his obsessions with refereeing are in dangerof upstaging them.ST.
LOUIS The Opera Theater of St. Louis has grown remarkablysince Richard Gaddes founded it in 1976 as a Midwestern oasis ofcontemporary works, operatic rarities and standard repertory,performed in English by young singers at the beginning of theircareers.The festival's budget was $139,000 that first season; in recentyears, it has hovered around $5 million.
Today, the directorialreins are held by a triumvirate Charles MacKay, general director;Colin Graham, artistic director, and Stephen Lord, music director but the original vision has remained largely intact.John Going, the stage director, had some innocent fun with thework, moving it from Italy to Buenos Aires but keeping it in themid-19th century.
If there is no reason for the move, there is alsonothing objectionable about it, and Phyllis Mead took the newlocation into account in her amusing and often freewheelingtranslation.
The set, by James Wolk, offers a panoramic view ofBuenos Aires harbor as a backdrop, with walls, gates and palm treesdefining Don Pasquale's estate.
Liz Covey's costumes ornate forthe gentry, motley for the household staff completed the picture.What makes this production a joy is an ensemble that is vocallysecure and adept at comic timing and interaction.Mary Dunleavy negotiated the high-flying arias that Donizetticreated for Norina with technical ease and interpretive subtlety.She also moved comfortably between the two characterizationsdemanded of her: that of the graceful young lover and the demandingshrew.
Gregory Turay, a tenor with an attractive timbre and plentyof power, sang Ernesto's music sensitively.
Timothy Nolen playedthe title role with a broader range of emotions than is typical,and Jeff Mattsey was a suitably conspiratorial Dr. Malatesta.These emotionally bleak stories inspired extraordinary musicfrom both Janacek and Gounod.
When Katya is at her most conflicted,the music conveys a great deal more about her turmoil and passionthan the libretto (heard in a translation by Norman Tucker).
Gounodachieved a similar effect in a more constricted harmonic language.Marie Plette sang Katya's music with the intensity and dimensionit demands, and was closely matched in both vocal power andpurposefulness by Robert Brubaker, as Boris, and Sari Gruber, asTichon's sympathetic sister Varvara.
Michael Hayes as Tichon andKathryn Day as Kabanicha provided the necessary texture andfamilial counterpoint.Mary Mills conveyed Marguerite's youthfulness and faithcompellingly, and sang with a touching warmth and beauty.
As Faust,John Fowler was vocally strained, particularly at the top of hisrange, and dramatically overwrought, but that made him a good foilfor David Pittsinger's spectacularly agile portrayal ofMephistopheles.The cast also included Franco Pomponi, as the hot-headedValentin, and Valerie Komar, who sang nicely but tended to overact,as Siebel, Marguerite's hapless suitor.Training camp is less than three months away, but the Bruinswere forced to slap an early question mark over their net Thursdaywhen their No.
1 goaltender, Byron Dafoe, underwent surgery torepair a slightly torn shoulder capsule.According to club president/general manager Harry Sinden, the27-year-old Dafoe was experiencing pain and soreness in recentweeks while lifting weights at his offseason home in Los Angeles.A slight tear in Dafoe's left shoulder capsule was repairedearly Thursday morning by Dr. Ron Kvitne, and Dafoe is expected toneed up to 12 weeks to recover.Rob Tallas spent most of last season as Dafoe's backup after JimCarey was demoted to Providence and soon thereafter requiredseason-ending shoulder surgery.
The untested John Grahame, son offormer Boston netminder Ron Grahame, ranks third or fourth on thenetminding depth chart, depending on whether the out-of-favor Careyis considered a viable option to play here again.Dafoe and Tallas almost certainly would be the two netmindersprotected.
Grahame is exempt, having turned pro a year ago.
Carey,owed $5 million over the next two seasons, likely wouldn't interestthe Predators, whose boss is David Poile, the former Capitalsgeneral manager who dealt him from Washington to the Bruins inMarch 1997.If the Bruins look for some insurance in net, said Sinden, theywon't be shopping in the unrestricted free agent market thatincludes the likes of Curtis Joseph, Mike Richter, JohnVanbiesbrouck, and Sean Burke.
They more likely would be huntingfor someone who has been a backup elsewhere, someone like Dafoe,who wasn't considered a No.
1 with the Kings when LA dealt himhere.
Dafoe sparkled for much of the 1997-98 season, compiling a30-25-9 mark and a 2.24 goals-against average.The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the followingstories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions ofFriday, June 19, and thereafter.
If you have any questions, pleasecall Tina May at (206) 448-8355.The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following generalstories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs ofFriday, June 19 and thereafter.
For questions about stories,contact Tom Hicks at the Daily News, (818) 713-3702.WASHINGTON In the great congressional smokeout of 1998, fearof taxes trumped fear of cancer and that's a lesson lawmakers,congressional challengers, and political consultants will apply toWashington battles and local campaigns in the future.The collapse of the antitobacco crusade this week was moresignificant as a lesson in political science than as one in publichealth.
Although proponents of the bill spoke gravely abouttobacco's costs, the proposal failed largely because of fears,stoked deftly by the tobacco industry, that the bill's new taxeswould provide money for new government spending.Supporters of the legislation tried to portray it as a victim ofBig Money, but the opponents prevailed by saying that the measurewas a stalking horse for Big Brother and Big Government.The defeat of the tobacco bill ends one of the two debates theRepublican Congress didn't want to have, but had anyway.
The otherone, on the effort to overhaul the nation's campaign-financesystem, will almost surely dribble to a close in the next fewweeks, almost certainly with the same result.Like the campaign-finance bill, the tobacco legislation wasprincipally a Democratic initiative in a chamber controlled byRepublicans.Like the campaign-finance bill, the tobacco legislation was asymbol of the power of money in politics.
The tobacco companiespumped millions into their fight against the bill, blanketing thecountry with advertisements at the local level.But as combatants on both sides hurled charges andcountercharges Thursday, there were few indications that tobaccowould emerge as a major issue in November's elections.
There arefew congressional races where the tobacco bill is much of an issue,and in those places principally tobacco states such as NorthCarolina, Tennessee and Kentucky the major candidates almostuniformly opposed the tobacco legislation.Even so, the end of the tobacco bill may help some congressionalchallengers portray their rivals as tools of big-money interests.In the Seattle suburbs, for example, former DemocraticRepresentative Jay Inslee has been describing two-term GOPRepresentative Rick White, who opposed the measure, as out of touchwith his constituents and too cozy with special-interest groups.But the bitter divisions produced by the tobacco debate divisions produced by classic conflicts between freedom andresponsibility underscore the potency that taxes have had in theAmerican political discourse since colonial days.
In the pastquarter-century, moreover, the pressure against hiking taxes hasgrown substantially, as the public increasingly has adopted theview that taxes are the oxygen of big government.The notion that taxes themselves are as much an infringement ofpersonal liberty as other forms of government oppression was oncethe province of conservative theorists.
But it was popularized byRonald Reagan and then adopted gradually across the politicalspectrum so much so that when the tobacco companies searched fora weapon to defeat the Senate bill, they gladly picked up theanti-tax cudgel.Even proponents of the tobacco measure acknowledged this weekthat once the legislation was transformed in the public debate intoa tax bill, the effort was lost.
By acknowledging that the tobaccobill would increase revenues, its proponents made the legislationvulnerable to charges that it was a means of financing newgovernment spending.In truth, the financial scope of the legislation ballooned somuch so that it popped.
The bill the Senate walked away from thisweek was around $150 billion bigger than the original agreementworked out with state attorneys general one year ago this Saturday.Most of that money was to be paid by consumers, not the tobaccocompanies.It quacked like a tax increase and waddled like a tax increase and in the end, it died like a tax increase.NEW YORK The audience squealed with pleasure every time StevieNicks twirled in the spotlight at Radio City Music Hall onWednesday night.A less worshipful listener heard something else: a singer withan out-of-tune croak enthusiastically working her way through twodecades' of dewy-eyed narcissism.More came across as rambling adolescent diary entries.
But aslong as her audience wants to believe, she can still play at beinga princess.A permanent presidential council would bring sustaining power torace matters and make it harder for future presidents to disbandthe panel without being accused of abandoning the goal of racialharmony, said the Rev.
Suzan D. Johnson Cook, a board member fromNew York.The seven-member advisory board, appointed a year ago byClinton, is completing recommendations to help the presidentidentify ways to promote racial harmony and equal opportunity.
Theboard's final recommendations will be turned over to Clinton beforeits one-year charter expires Sept. 30.At its final meeting Thursday, the board discussed a number ofideas, including increasing spending on school construction,boosting the minimum wage and promoting multi-lingualism as a wayto counter calls to make English the official language.Some of those ideas may make their way into a report thatClinton will issue this winter.
That report will outline not onlythe president's vision but also a work plan for the public andprivate sectors to help equalize opportunities across the racespectrum.To that end, former New Jersey Governor Thomas H. Kean, aRepublican, said Clinton should seek far more than the $5 billionover five years for school construction contained in his fiscal1999 budget.Without providing a figure, he suggested that additional federalfunding for school construction be explored for urban and ruralschool districts in high-poverty areas and that those funds bematched by the states.
He also suggested that the federalgovernment work with higher education institutions to betterprepare teachers.
Kean said Clinton should find a way to ensurethat academic tracking, for placing students according to testscores, does not result in the resegregation of classrooms.Other suggestions were that Clinton seek an unspecified minimumwage increase to boost the income of low-wage workers who aredisproportionately minorities, support collective bargaining toensure greater equality of pay, and strengthen enforcement ofanti-discrimination laws, all steps that Clinton has already begunto take.Board members said Clinton should urge the media, particularlytelevision networks, to improve the portrayal of minorities.
Boardmember Oh suggested that Clinton should encourage English-speakingAmericans to learn another language to help reduce hostilitiesagainst immigrants.DETROIT This city's auto executives have a strong herdinstinct, imitating one another's most popular car designs andliving in the same neighborhoods, but they could not be moredifferent in their approaches to labor relations as this month'sstrike against General Motors has shown.Stuck in its 16th strike in the last five years, GM has publiclylashed out this week at the United Automobile Workers.
By contrast,Ford has not had a strike in 12 years and its executives play golfwith UAW leaders.
Chrysler's approach to labor relations liessomewhere in between, with prolonged periods of calm interrupted byoccasional strikes that are usually settled behind closed doorswith little public acrimony.Each strategy has its defenders, and there has been no sign thatany of the automakers plans to change course.
GM contends thatbecause it produces fewer cars per worker than its rivals, it mustinsist that the union allow more flexible work practices and asteady decline in employment through attrition.
GM executives havevehemently criticized the union even as the company tries to end acrippling strike at two parts factories in Flint, Mich.The union contends that their members work hard and that GM hasbroken promises to invest more money in the parts factories.
Thewalkouts have forced the closing of 21 of GM's 28 North Americanassembly plants, including the shutdown Thursday of amidsized-sedan factory in Oklahoma City and a minivan factory inDoraville, Ga. GM has temporarily laid off 88,800 workers.Ford sees its labor harmony as a competitive advantage, allowingit to improve quality and transfer workers more easily from ailingcar factories to ones that make more lucrative pickup trucks andsport utility vehicles.
Chrysler works with the union most of thetime but has sometimes tried to punish local union officials wholead wildcat strikes or take other steps that could hurtproductivity.Foreign automakers building cars and trucks in the United Stateshave kept unions out of their factories, with the exception oftheir joint ventures with the Big Three.The Big Three's contrasting approaches to labor relations startwith the people who run them.
Ford has entrusted the task since1982 to Peter Pestillo, one of Ford's four executive vicepresidents, who is a regular golf partner and close friend ofStephen Yokich, the president of the UAW.
Chrysler has DennisPawley, one of its six executive vice presidents, a rare top autoexecutive who worked his way up from the factory floor and awell-known figure among union leaders as a result.
Pestillo andPawley both have subordinates who manage the day-to-dayrelationship with the union, but they stay in touch with unionleaders.GM's labor relations have been managed for the last severalyears by Gerald Knechtel, one of its 49 vice presidents and atarget of union criticism.
Union officials complain that promisesare made by many levels of GM officials with little coordinationand that bitterness results when some of these promises are notkept.Union leaders also complain that GM executives ignore themexcept during strikes.
Basil Hargrove, the president of theCanadian Auto Workers union, said that while Knechtel's predecessorhad come to Canada twice a year to meet with union officials,Knechtel had showed up only during the union's 1996 strike againstGM, which lasted three weeks and shut down almost all GM productionin Canada.Knechtel declined to comment, following his practice duringlabor disputes.
But Hackworth said that GM's frictions with the UAWwere the inevitable result of GM's need for changes and not theresult of the company's management style.
GM produces more of itsown parts than Ford or Chrysler and so has higher overall laborcosts, he said.
Outside suppliers of parts tend not to be unionizedand pay much lower wages.But Wall Street analysts say GM is overstaffed because itsmarket share in the United States has dwindled for lack of popularauto designs.
Fewer workers are needed to build the shrinkingnumber of family vehicles that GM sells.GM sold 6.3 million cars and light trucks in 1985 and 4.7million last year.
By contrast, Ford's sales rose to 3.8 millionlast year from 3.3 million in 1985.
Chrysler's sales edged up to2.3 million from 2.2 million in 1985 after adjusting for Chrysler'spurchase in 1987 of American Motors Corp.ISTANBUL, Turkey Turks who believe that the military hasbecome too deeply involved in politics here are hoping that theemergence of a new military commander in August will have aprofound effect on national life.The five-year term of Turkey's Chief of Staff, Gen. Ismail HakkiKaradayi, who has led the military deeply into politics in aneffort to stem what he says is the rise of religiousfundamentalism, expires on Aug. 30.
His successor is likely to bean officer who believes that the military should stay closer to itsbarracks and further away from politics.Turkey has had weak and fragmented governments for the last fiveyears.
This week the latest in the line of embattled primeministers, Mesut Yilmaz, announced that he would resign at the endof this year and that new national elections would be held inApril.As civilian leaders have proved unable to overcome personal andpolitical rivalries, the role of the military has increasedconsiderably.
It is now the country's most potent political force,as it showed last year by forcing the resignation of Prime MinisterNecmettin Erbakan, whom officers accused of supportingfundamentalism.The military has also taken over principal responsibility forTurkey's relations with Greece and other nearby countries, as wellas for policy toward Cyprus and toward this country's Kurdishminority.
It encourages prosecutors to pursue cases againstwriters, journalists and politicians who express heretical views onthese or other matters.Military commanders have compiled a list of businesses thatgovernment agencies should boycott because they have been deemedfavorable to political Islam.
They are pressing Parliament to passa series of anti-fundamentalist laws, including curbs on Islamicfoundations and new restrictions on the construction of mosques.With the military now so involved in civilian policy, and withpolitical parties so weak and fragmented, a change in the topmilitary command might have a far more profound effect on Turkishlife than an election.The Turkish military command operates under strictly observedrules and traditions.
They dictate that Karadayi will step down inAugust and that he will be replaced by the army commander, Gen.Huseyin Kivrikoglu.Although Kivrikoglu has kept a low public profile and declinesrequests for interviews, officers who know him and commentators whomonitor the army believe that he will seek to curb the military'spolitical role.
Some speculate that he will transfer seniorofficers who have directed the anti-fundamentalist campaign andwill abolish the West Working Group, a military intelligence unitthat closely monitors Islamic trends in society.The final decision about changes in the military command will bemade at the end of August by the Supreme Military Council, a panelcomposed of top military and civilian leaders and headed by Yilmaz.Military commanders have become impatient with Yilmaz for hisfailure to press harder against fundamentalism, a policy he hasadopted partly because he does not want to alienateIslamic-oriented voters.
Kivrikoglu is considered not only lessinsistently anti-fundamentalist but also more positive towardYilmaz.The accord this week calling for national elections in Aprilreflected the weakness of the Yilmaz government, which does nothave a majority in Parliament and must therefore cater to a varietyof factional leaders.The government is so divided that its second-ranking figure,Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, said he had not signed theaccord and was not certain there would actually be elections inApril.As bickering among civilian leaders continued this week, themilitary-directed campaign against fundamentalism continued.
OnMonday, police officers used tear gas and batons to break up ademonstration of about 1,000 Muslims who were protesting a new banon the wearing of head scarves by female university students.
Thebanned students and their supporters held more protests later inthe week.It is now back at the Lamb's, in the main theater, with a castwhose members fill the auditorium not only with song but also withthe sounds of piano, bass, fiddle, guitar, banjo, harp, accordion,harmonica, cymbals, bells, washboards, wooden spoons and slats, andeven a half-filled soda bottle (great train whistle), most of themmoving from one instrument to another without missing a beat.The story is a deceptively simple comedy about a service in aBaptist church in rural white North Carolina 60 years ago, a placeand time beautifully evoked by Peter Harrison's set.
The minister(Robert Olsen) struggles to keep control of the proceedings, butthe choir takes over.
The choir is the singing Sanders family: thequiet operator of a general store and gas station (Bobby Taylor);his bright and slightly dotty wife (Constance Barron); his brother(John Griffith), who is sullen but softhearted, and three children:an awkward but very smart daughter who is the only songless Sanders(Jonah Marsh) and younger twins (Dionne McGuire Gardner and SeanDooley) who give the impression that if their leashes were cut theywould steal the whole show.For all their sly, Bible-quoting efforts to manipulate oneanother, these characters share a deep affection, and the actors soclearly relish inhabiting the characters that the performancebecomes a delightfully engaging revelation of the rich complexity,and downright orneriness, of simple people whose faith is powerfulbut far from unquestioning.
The cast is a fine ensemble.
They feellike a warm old-fashioned family, and they know how to make theaudience feel right at home.
All that clapping and singing alongseems as natural as breathing.By Connie Ray; conceived and directed by Alan Bailey; sets byPeter Harrison; lighting by Mary Jo Dondlinger; costumes by PamelaScofield; musical director, John Foley; musical arrangements byMike Craver and Mark Hardwick; production stage manager, ErikaFeldman; technical supervision by Joseph Robinson; associateproducer, Nancy Nagel Gibbs.
Presented by Carolyn Rossi Copelandand Marie B. Corp. At the Lamb's Theater, 130 W. 44th St.,Manhattan.PRISTINA, Yugoslavia After taking losses in their fight withthe Yugoslav military, separatist rebels in Kosovo Province havebeen bolstered by a huge infusion of weapons and fighters fromAlbania and have begun to hit back in recent days, Westerndiplomats say.Guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army have set up roadblockson key roads in the province, setting off frequent clashes with theSerb forces, the diplomats say.
There are also daily skirmishesnear Serb police checkpoints.In response to the increased fighting, the Serbs have beenforced to move in huge, unwieldy convoys of troops, the diplomatssay.
Between 40,000 and 50,000 Serb soldiers and special policeforces are now deployed in the province.Rebel bands control as much as 40 percent of the province, andthe ranks of the guerrillas have swelled since March from a fewhundred fighters to more than 3,000.
Weapons, carried by packhorses and mules, can be seen arriving nightly across the ruggedborder with Albania.
There seems to be no shortage of volunteers tojoin the burgeoning separatist army.In Kosovo Province, the whir of helicopters ferrying woundedSerbs to army hospitals, and the grim sounds of automatic fire andmortar rounds can be heard just a few miles from Pristina, theprovincial capital.
More than 300 people are said to have died inthe fighting this year, and many suspect that the casualty figuresmay be much higher.As the situation spins out of control, many Western diplomats,while calling for negotiations, now concede that the only hope ofending the war will have to come from outside.The Yugoslav government, in a move that brings it closer to anarmed confrontation with NATO, said Thursday that it would notcomply with demands to withdraw some forces from Kosovo and haltthe attacks against ethnic Albanians that have driven tens ofthousands of people from their homes.The decision by Milosevic to defy the international communityseems certain to foretell another round of fighting in the provinceand will make it difficult for NATO commanders to back away fromthreatened air strikes, according to Western diplomats.
Any attackscould push Washington into the center of another Balkan conflict,this time against a Yugoslav military equipped with sophisticatedanti-aircraft systems and a large air force.Included in the Serb forces is a notorious Yugoslav SpecialOperations Unit known as the JSO, which was involved in some of theworst atrocities of the war in Bosnia.Its troops have been using an armored personnel carrier inKosovo that was seized from Dutch U.N. peacekeepers during the Serbmassacre of some 8,000 Muslims in Srebrenica in 1995, according toDutch diplomats.
Its force of a few hundred men are used to carryout commando raids, and its presence in Kosovo is seen by manyoutsiders as an indication that new attacks are being prepared byBelgrade against rebel strongholds.The fighting between the rebels, who want to make Kosovo aseparate state, and the government intensified in March afterBelgrade ordered special police units to crush the center of therebel operations in Drencia in central Kosovo.
The attacks, whichleveled villages and killed more than 80 people, most of themcivilians, enraged a population that had been content to resistBelgrade through peaceful means.Milosevic, after promising U.S.
Envoy Richard Holbrooke lastmonth that he would begin talks with ethnic Albanian leader IbrahimRugova to stave off a threat of sanctions, stepped up his campaignagainst the rebels earlier this month.
His forces, for the firsttime backed by army units, drove some 80,000 people from theirhomes along the border with Albania and burned and shelledvillages.
The drive was apparently intended to hamper the infusionof fighters and war materiel into the country.The latest attacks, which included heavy shelling, led theWestern alliance to threaten Milosevic with air strikes if he didnot withdraw his units, end the attacks and begin talks with Rugovato return Kosovo's autonomy that was revoked eight years ago byBelgrade.The Yugoslav president, after a Moscow meeting on Tuesday withPresident Boris Yeltsin, failed to accept the demands of theso-called contact group, which includes Russia and five other majorpowers, to withdraw his special units.
The contact group was formedto handle the crisis in Bosnia.The tough stance by Belgrade has stiffened the resolve of theethnic Albanian leadership and moved it closer to endorsing armedrebellion.
The so-called government in exile for Kosovo Thursdaycalled on ethnic Albanian villagers in Kosovo to defend themselvesagainst Serb attacks.
The statement, made in Tirana by the fiveleading political parties, dealt another blow to Rugova's avowedpacifism.
The parties, however, did not endorse a request by theKLA leadership to be declared the army of the government, ethnicAlbanian leaders said.The show's framework is provided by a song Schwinn is composingfor a children's television show, which stars a man dressed as afrog called Bungee.
When Schwinn collapses into a plate of zitiwhile lunching with his friend Rhoda (Liz Larsen), he has yet tocomplete that song (it's about frogs in the springtime) and thespecter of unfinished work will haunt him throughout his ensuingordeal of examinations, surgery and recovery in the hospital.Bungee (amusingly played by Chip Zien), or the fantasy versionof him, is an active presence in these scenes, tooling around onhis green bicycle and offering alternately chirpy and shrill bitsof wisdom.
The use of the character is the show's freshest device,and the frog-man figures prominently in Schwinn's climactic embraceof childlike wonder.
But the fact remains that Bungee is aloathsome creature, and it would be far more gratifying to see himstrangled.The evening is most persuasive when its subject is frustration.The opening number, in which Schwinn is working with disdain andexasperation on the Bungee song, is charming and funny; so, in acreepier vein, is the spectacle of Schwinn's doctor (John Jellison)delivering a muddled diagnosis with a mad-scientist fervor.
And twoof Schwinn's hallucinations, respectively embodied by Ms. Larsenand Michael Mandell, in a scene-stealing turn as a jocular nurse,have a weird, compelling spikiness.The production, the first to come out of Lincoln Center'srecently established workshop for new musicals, looks great, with aset by the ever-inventive David Gallo that finds convincing visualmetaphors for the out-of-body experience.
And the cast istop-notch.
Gets brings an amiable looseness to his part, a sort ofgo-with-the-flow passivity that suits the material without seemingshapeless.
Penny Fuller, as Schwinn's mother, and ChristopherInnvar, as his lover, are appropriate mixtures of prickliness andcomfort.
And the invaluable Mary Testa shows up as a homeless womanwho offers a downside philosophy of life that Schwinn mustincorporate (sort of) into his revitalized worldview.Music and lyrics by William Finn; book by Finn and James Lapine;directed and choreographed by Graciela Daniele; sets by DavidGallo; costumes by Toni-Leslie James; lighting by Peggy Eisenhauer;sound by Tony Meola; orchestrations by Michael Starobin; musicdirector/additional vocal arrangements by Ted Sperling; vocalarrangements, Jason Robert Brown; stage manager, Bonnie Panson;musical theater associate producer, Ira Weitzman.
A Lincoln CenterTheater production, under the direction of Andre Bishop and BernardGersten.
At the Mitzi Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center.In this dizzying paganistic ode to Eros, where the camera almostnever stops moving, the angel sharks have been replaced by thebodies of restless, hot-blooded adolescents diving and treadingwater and nipping on each other in the shadowy depths.
Thecomparison is made explicit in a scene in which a pubescent swimmerwith an angelic halo of blond hair is shot and the water slowlyturns deep red.At the center of the film whose cast largely consists ofnonactors gleaned from French stadiums, beaches, Gypsy camps andhousing projects is a brooding, sensual 15-year-old girl namedMarie (Vahina Giocante) who runs wild one summer.
Marie snubs theimpoverished local boys in favor of a group of arrogant Americansailors who take her to nightclubs and hotels.
Then having hadtheir way with her, they discard her with brutal contempt, callingher a Gypsy whore.
Marie ends up sharing a brief idyll with Orso(Frederic Malgras), a rootless, pug-faced petty criminal who robshouses and hangs around with the local youth gangs.These scenes give you the feeling that gang rape and gang warare almost the same thing and that given the right circumstancesthey are inevitable eruptions of male aggression.After a while, the images of water, rocks and half-naked bodiesmerge into a vision of the film's characters as untamed forces ofnature who are the fauna of the environment in which they cavort.Viewed this way, you begin to stop thinking of them as civilizedhumans bound to any social or moral order, even when they commitcrimes.Written and directed by Manuel Pradal; in French, with Englishsubtitles; director of photography, Christophe Pollock; edited byValerie Deseine; music by Carlo Crivelli; production designer,Javier Po; produced by Philippe Rousselet; released by SonyPictures Classics.For some years, the policy has been no secret to the dictatorsor those Americans who bother to pay attention.
The results havebeen productive, no denying that.
For China it produced U.S. satellite technology to sharpen theaim of its missiles, for North Korea a growing trade in the exportof missiles and for Iraq a free hand to slaughter all Iraqis whooppose Saddam Hussein and a plan to end sanctions and start againto rebuild its military power.
For America it also producedsomething: a trash can full of broken promises.
But Wednesday, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright added ahigh shine to Clintonian appeasement policy by including under itssheltering arms the government of Iran.
Yes, indeed, the Iran thatexecuted thousands of its own citizens, held 53 Americans hostagefor 444 days in the U.S. Embassy, the same Iran that boasts of itsinfiltration of Bosnia, that killed Jews in Buenos Aires,Argentina, and almost daily sends to Damascus a planeload ofweapons and funds for terrorists around the world.
The Clintonian rationalization will be that the choreographedoverture to Iran is support for Iranians who voted for Khatami.
Intruth, it will strengthen their tormentors, make it more difficultto overthrow them.
By pretending that the Iranian regime that lives by terrorismmight end it, by absolving countries pouring money into thegovernment and therefore its killers and floggers, the U.S.announces it will not try to punish or even hamper the regime, anddespite the past, would help it.
Why does Clinton do these things approve strengthening Chinesemissile forces, permit Saddam to slaughter his people, build theprestige of the Iranian despotism, court dictators, and earnnothing much more for the United States than a good view of thebacksides of our European allies as they walk away from us towardthe trade troughs of tyrannies?
Let Clinton and his entourage conjure up phony rationalizations but we know, we know and so does Congress.
Money.
Like most of America's allies and partners, trade is hisoverriding goal in dealing with the dictatorships trade, notfreedom, not human rights, not principle.
He has lined America upat China's trough, costing America $50 billion a year for theprivilege, and is now jostling for a similar place at Iran's.
For the mirage of money, under the tutelage and rod ofChina-trade lobbies, he leads America to suffer political loss andhumiliation, threats to its security and the end of principle inforeign policy.
I wonder by now is he even capable of seeing where Americanprinciple lies?
After all, it does not show on the balance sheet that is, not until some new Pearl Harbor, or invasion of Kuwait, orsome second explosion at the World Trade Center, something likethat.ATLANTA -- Companies that plan to participate in Georgia'ssoon-to-be deregulated natural gas market are maneuvering forposition with less than one week left before the Public ServiceCommission sets ground rules for just how competition will work.The PSC staff and representatives of the marketing companies,including Atlanta Gas Light Co., held talks Thursday for the secondstraight day, seeking an agreement on operational details of thenew system.Under a new state law, sales of natural gas will be opened up tocompetition later this year, much in the way long-distancetelephone service has been deregulated.
Atlanta Gas Light Co. willbecome a distribution company responsible for transporting gas tohomes and businesses.
Marketing companies will be responsible forselling gas to homes and businesses.Shell Energy Services Co., a subsidiary of Houston-based ShellOil Co., became the third company Thursday to apply forcertification as a marketing company for natural gas.Houston-based Enron Corp. and PGE Energy Services of Californiahave already filed papers.
Up to a dozen companies are expected toapply before the July 16 deadline.
Competition begins Nov. 1.On Thursday, discussions dealt with such issues as how acomputer system will track gas sales, and the amount of informationmarketing companies will get from Atlanta Gas Light Co. onpotential customers.AGL has also aked for an $18.6 million rate increase, in partto pay for the transition to competition.
But the PSC staff isexpected to recommend a $30 million rate cut.The commission and several marketing companies, however,expressed concern Thursday that Atlanta Gas Light and its marketingaffiliate may have jumped the gun on the deregulation process.At issue are about 500 letters sent by Atlanta Gas LightServices, AGL's marketing affiliate, to prospective businesscustomers seeking authorization to access their accounts at the gascompany to help prepare sales proposals.But Bobby Baker, chairman of the PSC, said the mailing appearedpremature and said all marketing companies should be granted equalaccess to consumer information.The PSC staff is expected to make a recommendation soon onwhether Atlanta Gas Light Services can proceed using the AGL name.Jim Hurt, the state's consumer utility counsel, has recommended thename be approved.In another last-minute flareup, Atlanta Gas Light Co. and SCANAare facing off at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, thefederal agency that regulates interstate gas sales, over gassupplies for the Georgia market.Mark D. Caudill, vice president/rates and regulatory affairs atAGL Resources Inc., the gas company's parent, said the company isseeking authorization from FERC to pass along to consumers thebenefits of discounted rates for gas from an interstate pipeline.But, he said, SCANA filed a protest that has delayed a decisionin an apparent bid for competitive advantage.ATLANTA -- Credit card processor Nova Corp. agreed to acquireNashville-based rival PMT Services in a stock swap valued at about$1.23 billion, based on Thursday's closing price of $33.93 3/4 forNova's shares, which fell $1.25.The deal, expected to be completed in late September or earlyOctober, would make Atlanta-based Nova the nation's fourth-largestprovider of credit card processing for merchants, after First Data,National Processing and Paymentech.
Nova is now fifth.The combined company, with revenue of $1 billion and 1,600employees, would manage 350,000 accounts on which about $40 billionis charged a year.
First Data, which plans to move its headquartersto Atlanta from New Jersey, is nearly six times larger, processing$232 billion in transactions for merchants.Nova, which said it doesn't plan any layoffs after the merger,authorizes credit card and debit card transactions for merchants,captures the data and pays the merchants.
It also providesvalue-added services, such as information on how frequentlycustomers shop.PMT Services shareholders will receive 0.715 of a share of Novastock for each PMT Services share they hold.
All told, Nova plansto issue a total of 36.2 million shares.
Nova now has a similarnumber of shares outstanding, said James M. Bahin, vice chairmanand chief financial officer.Before Thursday's merger announcement, analysts had expectedNova to earn 75 cents a share this year, a 29 percent increase fromlast year's 58 cents a share.First Union owns 21 percent of Nova's shares outstanding, Bahinsaid.
That will drop to about 10 percent when the deal with PMTServices is completed, he said.
First Union got its stake in 1996,when the two companies combined their merchant processing units.WorldCom, which provided the initial seed money for Nova andcontinues to provide the company's telecommunications links, willsee its stake drop to about 2.5 percent from 5 percent, Bahin said.It first appeared in 1946 when a generation hardened to realityby the Depression and war let it pass without saluting.
They knewfrom bitter experience that the whole town never turns up toslather its George Baileys in money and love.The movie caught on only later, in the television age when thecountry was far enough removed from hard times to put up with suchhokum about human nature.
Now here it is: officially certified bythe American Film Institute as the 11th-best movie of all time.Mean old Lionel Barrymore, you told it like it was.These prominent Americans must have been too busy becomingprominent ever to have experienced the ecstasy of chewing Jujubeswhile Gary Cooper was ordering his pirate's funeral.For Correll, who is both chairman of the Atlanta chamber and CEOof Georgia-Pacific, the question was especially timely.
Only thatmorning, Correll and the chamber unveiled plans for a six-montheffort to come up with an action plan to address the metro area'stransportation and air quality problems.The chamber is stepping head-on into an issue that has paralyzedthe community.
Despite months of studies and meetings, variousstate or regional entities haven't been able to fashion aresounding consensus on this complex and politically volatileissue.The chamber hopes to be the catalyst, as it has in the past wheneconomic well-being hangs in the balance.Sensing a need for leadership on the issue, the Atlanta chamberstarted pushing forward an idea of an influential group of the keyplayers from both business and government.
The prime movers wereCorrell and Atlanta Chamber President Sam A. Williams, who was notpresent at his chamber board meeting Thursday because of the deathof his 94-year-old father.The chamber's initiative could fill a vacuum that has existedfor months, if not years.Metro Atlanta's transportation problems have not been a statepriority, and looming elections don't help.
Gov.
Zell Miller hasput off much of the issue to the next governor, and other keyoffices, such as lieutenant governor, also are on the verge oftransition.The Atlanta Regional Commission has tried to address the issueon a metrowide basis, but it lacks the muscle to get itsrecommendations sanctioned by state officials or respected by localdevelopers or government officials.
The Regional BusinessCoalition, which has been studying the air quality issue, also hasshied away from bringing state agencies to the table to discusstheir differences.The Journal article, a summary of long commute times, airquality problems and even incidents of road rage, shows the worldis beginning to take notice.
And that, as much as anything, mayprod leaders to take a stand.When no other group emerged to lead on this issue, Williams andCorrell drafted the respected consulting firm of McKinsey Co. tohelp distill problems and solutions through the group namedThursday.
They also met two or three times with Miller in the pastsix weeks.While the governor has kept a low public profile on the issue,Correll credited him with providing sound advice on how the chambershould form the group and ensure it produces action.For instance, the group will make its recommendations in earlyDecember just after the elections but in time to bring proposalsbefore the General Assembly in January.
That timing enables thegroup to approach a newly elected governor and lieutenant governorsomewhat outside the political fray.
The group will convene July 1.The carefully selected members are not allowed to sendrepresentatives.It's too early to know if the Atlanta chamber's initiative willproduce the elusive consensus and real solutions.
But for the firsttime, it will bring key players to the table on equal footing.Most significantly, ARC, the Georgia Department ofTransportation and the Environmental Protection Division will bethere along with key business and political leaders in the region.The potential is for the group to hand over to the next governora game plan he could call his own.
Correll said it will be hismajor initiative of the year.
But as can be said of Atlantacommutes, getting from here to there won't be easy.ATLANTA -- Southern Co. is now the 49 percent minority owner ofSouth Western Electricity in Britain after selling a $170 millionstake to a Pennsylvania utility.Atlanta-based Southern, which bought South Western, or Sweb,three years ago, announced Thursday it had sold 26 percent of theutility to a subsidiary of PPL Resources.It was also first in a series of investments by U.S. utilitiesin Britain's power sector.
Since Southern's acquisition, U.S.electric companies have spent $20 billion on 12 British regionalelectric distributors.
Many are reportedly reassessing theirpositions following disappointing financial results.First, the Conservative government blocked the company's 1996attempt to take over National Power, a major British power supplierthen valued at $10 billion.While the tobacco bill killed Wednesday was not as focused onpublic-health measures as the one introduced last year, its demisedid spell the death of new funding for programs health officialssay are urgently needed, from treatment of smoking-related diseasesamong the uninsured and poor to the prevention of youths from everstarting to smoke.The bill levied a new, $1.10-a-pack tax over five years, which,combined with other penalties on tobacco companies, would have paidfor the new measures.Most prevention programs under the bill would target childrenbecause 99 percent of smokers begin in their youth, according tostudies done by researchers at the University of MassachusettsMedical Center in Worcester, Mass.The bill killed Wednesday did not have the public-healthbenefits of the original bill drafted last June, which allocated$500 million to anti-smoking campaigns, $1 billion to smokingcessation programs and research, $368.5 billion to treat indigentcitizens with tobacco-related disease.
That measure also called forlarger warnings on tops and fronts of packages and the disclosureof all tobacco company research and advertising strategies.But although senators last week had gutted monies specificallydedicated to public health measures, lawmakers and health officialsstill had hoped to reinstate them in conference committeenegotiations with representatives of the House, after it had passeda tobacco bill of its own.Three dozen states are suing tobacco companies to recover costsof treating smoking related diseases, with many planning to useproceeds from the suits for anti-smoking programs as well.
BothCalifornia and Massachusetts have already combined anti-smokingadvertising with educational programs to curb smoking.According to a study by the Amereican Cancer Society, under thepublic health provisions of the original bill introduced by SenatorJohn McCain of Arizona, five million smokers a year would havereceived help to stop smoking, more than 20 million teenagers wouldhave been exposed to anti-smoking advertising, and 50 millionchildren in grades K-12 would have participated in school basedprevention programs.Scully has never thrown a pitch, hit or caught a ball for theDodgers.
Yet Scully is the Dodgers.For so many who have come to know Scully's soothing voice, he ismore than simply a baseball announcer.
He is part of the family.When Scully, 70, gets behind the mike for the first pitch of the1999 season, it will mark the beginning of his 50th season with theDodgers.He has outlasted all the players, general managers, managers,even the O'Malley family.
But Scully is as humble as ever, a manthankful for his life, his family and for the opportunity he wasgiven to become one of the best and most famous announcers in thehistory of sports broadcasting.QUESTION: You got an announcer's job with the Brooklyn Dodgersin 1950, one year out of Fordham University.
In your wildestdreams, could you have ever imagined your career becoming what itis?ANSWER: Oh, no.
You have to remember that I wanted to do thiswhen I was 8 years old.
When I was in college, I got a job inWashington D.C. as a staff announcer.
And that, I thought, was amajor step in the right direction.
Then I was offered a permanentjob as a staff announcer in Washington.
And each of those steps, Ithought, was the beginning of the end.It was the best.
And then, to get the Dodger job wasoverwhelming.
But to even project beyond my opening day of my firstseason, no, you never think what's going to happen, will I survive.Nothing like that at all, no.A: I think a man is defined by his job.
You say, `There'sso-and-so the doctor, there's so-and-so the lawyer, there'sso-and-so in construction, there's so-and-so the sports announcer.
'I think your job, certainly for a man, becomes part of him, andvice-versa.Q: Your voice alone has become such a big part of life for manypeople in Southern California.
You're in their living rooms via thetelevision.
You're in their cars via the radio.
Can you understandhow so many people seem to feel they know you?A: I hope they do.
I really hope they do.
I'm extremely aware oftwo things.
My good fortune, for which I have overwhelminggratitude.
And the other is I know I have a big responsibility.
Ihave a responsibility to all those people you just mentioned whowatch and who listen.I try extremely hard, as best that I can, to come to work wellrested, well studied, having done homework.
I try so hard to be asaccurate as humanly possible.
All of that because of thecombination of gratitude for the job and also the feeling that Iowe these people.
I have a tremendous obligation.A: Well no, not really.
Not to define favorite.
I would say --and I think you could understand -- when I first started, I startedwith the Boys of Summer.
And so when I look back on those younger,more impressionable days, that team had a tremendous impact on me.Campanella, Hodges, Robinson, Reese, Cox, Snider, Furillo,Newcombe, Erskine, Branca, the list goes on and on.
So that teamhas meant a great deal.
The other thing, that team stayed togetherfor a while.
So that would be a favorite.The 1988 team, that seemed to be the most fortunate Dodger teamI've ever seen.
I will always think of that team as a team of goodfortune.And of course, the first time the Dodgers won a championshiphere (1959).
I will also think of that as something precious andspecial.Q: With so many great moments in Dodgers history, was there evera moment when it was nearly impossible for you to remain anunbiased announcer and not a fan who just wanted to stand up andcheer and show emotion?A: I'll put it to you this way.
In 1955, I was doing the lasthalf of the last game when the Dodgers won the World Series.
And itwas the only one the Brooklyn Dodgers would win.
And they had gonethrough a great amount of frustration over the years.So at the very end, on the last out, the ground ball to short,the throw to first, I said, very simply, `Ladies and gentlemen, theBrooklyn Dodgers are the champions of the world.'
And all thatwinter, people asked me, `How could you have been so calm?'
And theanswer was that I wasn't calm at all.
But if I had tried to sayanother word, I would have broken down and cried, it was soemotional.Another time certainly would be Kirk Gibson's home run (in the1988 World Series).
The fact that it was such a theatrical homerun.
He wasn't on the bench, then he limped out onto the field.
Afellow on one leg swinging really feebly several times.
And then tohit a game-winning World Series home run, that was pretty dramatic.But along the way there have been so many.
The three perfectgames, the 20 no-hitters that I've seen.
All of those were greatmoments.
But there are only one or two where I had to hold myselfin check, and certainly, the Brooklyn Dodgers' world championshipand the Kirk Gibson home run would be high on the list.Q: What has been the most difficult part of your job?
Is it thetravel, the time away from family?A: Exactly.
I think when I'm doing the game, I'm happy, I'mbusy, I'm distracted from anything else because I'm totallyimmersed in the game.
But you know that's only three or four hoursof a 24-hour day.The 24-hour day at home is fine.
You have plenty of things todo, obligations, plus your own family.
But on the road, those 19,20 hours grow very heavy.
And the older you get, the more yourealize No.
1, the most precious thing is time.
And No.
2, whenyou're on the road, as well-intentioned as you might be, you stillkill time.
And that hurts.Q: Will you know when it is time to retire, or will you everretire?A: As of right now, no, I don't think I will.
As long as myhealth stays, and as long as I still get goosebumps on great plays,as long as I anticipate a game, then I know all the juices arestill flowing.The day that I come to the ballpark and sit there and I'mtotally distracted and daydreaming, the day that somehow or other Isay `Oh, so what,' then it would be time.
But I haven't experiencedany of that, even close.
I'm happiest when I'm actually doing it.Q: This past year has been so eventful in Dodger history, fromthe O'Malleys selling the team to the trade of Mike Piazza.
Does itsurprise you or have you been around long enough to come to expectthat the game is going to change?A: Well, you get to a point of perspective where you knownothing is forever, including yourself, including your job,including anything and everything you see in the material side ofthe world.
But still, for me it was bittersweet when Peter O'Malleymade the annoucement that he was selling the ballclub.I love the family, he's a particularly close friend of mine, soI was sad.
But at the same time I was happy because if that's whatPeter and Terry wanted, then I was happy for them.As far as personnel upheavals and changes, that goes with theterritory.
Maybe some seem more shocking than others, but they allcome and they all go.Q: Does the sale of the club have any effect on how long you'llstay with the Dodgers?A: As far as the little relationship we have day-to-day withNews Corp., with Fox, it's been wonderful.
I don't have even theslightest doubt that this is where I want to be.Q: Baseball has gone from being America's pastime to a sportthat is struggling to compete in popularity with other sports.
Isit still a great game or is money and greed ruining it?A: It's still a great game.
In fact, in my own opinion, it's thebest game.
However, there are cycles, just like the seasons.
Therewas a long period of time where baseball was No.1.
Then there was atime, probably in the '60s and '70s, where professional footballwas No.
1.
Then people got tired of all the violence.The swing right now is to basketball.
Basketball may or may nothave labor problems this summer.
Eventually, the pendulum willswing the other way.
And baseball will come back.The big thing is the game of baseball is bigger and better thananyone associated with the game.
I can remember as a little boy,one of the first bits of philosophy I've heard.
It was: Baseballhas to be a great game to survive the people who run it.Well, I can add to that.
Baseball has to be a great game tosurvive the people who play it.
Basically the bottom line is, it isa great game.
And no matter what happens with the labor, with themoney, with the whatever, the game itself is pure enjoyment.ATLANTA -- Kevin White and his 10-year-old daughter were lookingforward to a vacation to Disney World.
But the computer installerat a General Motors Corp.'s assembly plant had to cancel the trip.He has the time, but not the money.White left the plant yesterday with about 4,000 other UnitedAuto Workers who won't be on the job because of a lack of partsfrom two striking plants in Flint, Mich.By Thursday, 20 GM assembly lines in the United States, Canadaand Mexico had been idled or slowed by the strikes.
An estimated 88percent of the No.
1 automaker's North American productioncapacity, about 20,000 vehicles a day, is now being lost, accordingto CSM Forecasting.While most GM dealers across the country still have severalweeks' supply of new vehicles on their lots, deliveries of new carsand trucks have nearly ended as the strikes have dried up theproduction pipeline.
GM stock was down 18 3/4 cents to $69.56 1/4Thursday.If there weren't a strike going on, workers would receiveholiday pay for the first week of the shutdown and vacation pay forthe second, he said.
To be eligible, they must have worked thescheduled workday before that holiday.
However, this year, thatlooks unlikely.While most workers asked said they support the strike in Flint,their reactions to being out of work were mixed.But not having an average steady paycheck, typically $500 aweek, is causing others to worry.
After leaving his shift Thursday,White went directly to a StaffMark, an employment agency handingout flyers as workers streamed out of the plant gates.Workers can file for unemployment benefits, up to $224 a week.If denied, they can receive strike pay of $150 a week.
Althoughthey are not on strike themselves, they will not receivesupplemental pay from GM, which normally is given during a layoffperiod.WASHINGTON The Shays-Meehan campaign finance bill suffered asetback Thursday when the House voted to change the rules of debateand allow consideration of 258 amendments during seven more weeksof floor action.Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican andco-sponsor of the bill, joined other Republican moderates inagreeing to the new rule.
He consented after House leaders pledgedto complete work on the legislation by the August recess, saidShays spokesman Seth Amglott.The 258 amendments to be considered for this single issue ismore than the total number of amendments approved for debate by theHouse Rules Committee in the past 11/2 years, said lawmakers.The strategy was at odds with the usual practice of limitingdebate and amendments since Republicans gained control of the Housein January 1995.ARLINGTON, Texas Rangers pitching coach Dick Bosman teachespitchers to throw nothing but strikes.
Hitting coach Rudy Jaramilloemphasizes that hitters should swing at nothing but strikes.Jaramillo, who watched as the Rangers accumulated thesecond-most walks in the league through Tuesday, isn't the only onewho is mystified.
Just exactly what constitutes the strike zoneremains a mystery in the major leagues.
Manager Johnny Oatesfiercely debated that point yesterday with plate umpire Ted Barrettand was ejected for arguing balls and strikes.Individual umpires do have different strike zones.
In the AL,John Hirschbeck and Durwood Merrill have a reputation for largestrike zones, while Terry Craft and Al Clark are considered thetoughest on pitchers.
One veteran umpire watcher said John Shulockand Tim Tschida are the best at calling balls and strikes.Hall of Famer Ted Williams used to study umpire tendencies.
Itwas his belief that taller umpires called more high strikes andshorter umpires had a lower strike zone.Another perception is that younger umpires have larger strikezones, a reputation enhanced when rookie umpire Ed Bean was behindthe plate for Kenny Rogers' perfect game.
However, it remainsdifficult to get any pitch above the waist called a strike.But any pitcher throwing above the waist without Wetteland'sfastball is asking for serious trouble, whether it's a ball or astrike.Greer said he shudders at the thought of a 95-mph fastball atthe chest being called a strike.Bosman said the best way to get a generous strike zone from anumpire is to throw strikes.
As Bobby Witt learned early in hiscareer, hard-throwing pitchers who can't get near the strike zoneget no benefit of the doubt when they occasionally find the corner.MOSCOW The Russian government announced Thursday that it wouldseek $10 billion to $15 billion in additional assistance from theInternational Monetary Fund.Russia has been quietly negotiating with IMF representatives forweeks over the conditions for additional aid.
But Thursday markedthe first time that it has publicly declared its position.With its financial markets still reeling from the flight offoreign investors from emerging markets, Russia is approaching acritical round of talks with the fund.Stanley Fischer, the second-ranking IMF official, plans to cometo Moscow early next week to meet with Prime Minister SergeiKiriyenko and other top aides.
The purpose of his visit is take themeasure of President Boris Yeltsin's new team and assess its plansfor dealing with the financial crisis.The fund is also planning to send a separate team of experts.But while Russia's officials and Western investment bankers havebeen heartened by the reports of the IMF visit, not all the newswas encouraging.Thursday the IMF said it was delaying the disbursement of thenext $670 million installment of the $10 billion loan because thegovernment has not fulfilled all of the conditions for receivingthe money.
The IMF indicated, however, that it expected the $670million to be disbursed next week.Russia's financial markets have continued to be very shaky.
Onebig concern is that the Central Bank's reserves, which are about$14.5 billion, are not sufficiently larger to prop up the ruble.Another worry is that Russia is sitting on a mountain of short-termdebt, which it has financed by selling Treasury Bonds at hugeinterest rates.The IMF is not the only source of financing.
Russia has alsosought to sell Eurobonds.
Thursday, Russia sold $2.5 billion in newbonds.
But the fund is still a key source of potential financing.The IMF sent the Russian government a confidential memo lastweek outlining its conditions for billions of dollars in new aid.One major condition was that the government slash its deficit to2.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product by 1999, wellunder the 4.5 percent target originally envisioned by thegovernment.Some pro-reform officials say they agree in principle with therequirements but worry that the government may not be able to meetall of them.For example, one condition is to enact a new tax code.
But thatmeans winning over a Communist-dominated Parliament.The new deficit target is considered to be very ambitious.
And asuggestion that Gazprom, the huge natural gas monopoly, be brokenup is generally considered to be unrealistic by Russian officials.The Hearst News Service will file or has filed these stories forFriday and Sunday.
If you have questions, please call Susie McBeeor Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.
For questions about HoustonChronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle SportsDepartment, 713-220-7896.TOBACCO (Washington) In the fallout of the tobacco billcollapse, President Clinton says he and Senate Majority LeaderTrent Lott discussed forming a bipartisan group to offer a new,presumably more palatable bill.
Meanwhile, some Democrats areportraying the Republican Party as a subsidiary of the tobaccoindustry for its role in the killing the tobacco bill.
By BENNETTROTH.RENO-JASPER (Washington) Attorney General Janet Reno offers tohelp prosecutors in the Jasper, Texas, hate-crime case as the smalltown struggles with the cost of trying three white suspects in thekilling of a disabled black man.
By MARK HELM.
(Already filed)BUSH-FUND-RAISERS (Washington) With polls showing George W.Bush heading toward a landslide re-election, the Texas governor andpotential Republican presidential candidate attends two majorfund-raising events in the nation's capital for his campaign backhome.
By JOHN C. HENRY.CLINTON-CABINET (Washington) President Clinton officiallynominates his ambassador to the United Nations, Bill Richardson, tobecome secretary of the Energy Department, and nominates hisspecial envoy to the Balkans, Richard Holbrooke, to succeedRichardson.
By NANCY MATHIS.FAKE-ASTRONAUT (Houston) A man who gained entry to severalgovernment facilities by claiming to be an astronaut, an ex-CIAagent and a Medal of Honor winner will continue to be held forpsychiatric examination, a federal magistrate rules.
Relatives saythe man, Jerry Allen Whittredge, has been delusional for years.
ByRAD SALLEE.HABITAT-HOUSTON (Houston) Volunteers and new homeownersdiscuss the Habitat for Humanity's progress in building 100 homesfor needy families in Houston.
By LISA CHMIOLA and JAMIE STOCKWELL.MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) It is still a bad educational idea,but the Wisconsin Supreme Court decision allowing parents to sendtheir children to religious schools with tax-funded vouchers isenergizing the conservative school-choice movement.
Let's improvethe public schools, not run away from them.
By MARIANNE MEANS.
(Already filed)BBN-ASTROS (Houston) Riding high after an upliftingninth-inning rally Wednesday, the Houston Astros wrap up athree-game series against the St. Louis Cardinals at the Astrodome.By CARLTON THOMPSON.THOMPSON-COLUMN (Washington) A good example of mendacity andhypocrisy is the tobacco industry's $40 million propaganda campaignto make it appear that the defeated anti-tobacco bill was justanother manifestation of lawmakers' greed for more money toincrease the size of government.
By ROBERT E. THOMPSON.
(Alreadyfiled)The wage the government has set about $6 an hour for adults is not as high as union leaders had hoped.
But in a country whoseonce-powerful unions were all but emasculated by Prime MinisterMargaret Thatcher in the 1980s, the plan was seen as an importantvictory for workers' rights.
It will take effect next April.In announcing the plan, Board of Trade president MargaretBeckett said the gap between lowest- and highest-paid workers hadalmost doubled in the last two decades.
She accused the previousgovernment of abandoning the working poor to the whims of stingyemployers.Under the plan, workers aged 22 and older will receive a minimumof about $6 an hour.
Those from 18 to 21 will receive a lower rate,of about $5 an hour, which will increase to about $5.35 in June2000.
The minimum wage will not apply to younger people or to thoseon apprenticeships.The plan, the government said, will increase the wages of some 2million people who currently earn less than the proposed minimum,some of whom are working for less than $1.50 an hour.The opposition Conservative Party, which has pressed for aminimum income level, with pay subsidized by benefits, rather thana minimum wage, attacked the plan.Since the Labor government came into power last year, it hasbeen examining ways of putting a minimum wage in place.
But thequestion of what the rate would actually be has been the subject ofbitter debate.A group called the Low Pay Commission, set up by the governmentto study the issue, recommended that the rate be set at about $6 anhour, the rate the government has adopted.
But unionrepresentatives have pushed for about $7.70 an hour, roughly halfof the median salary for men in Britain.But Mrs. Beckett said the lower rate was necessary to keep youngpeople working and to encourage employers to train them.Thursday, after Woodward arrived back in England a convictedfelon, the disillusioned vocals fell silent, and she spoke up forherself: loudly, boldly and defensively.In a clear voice tinged with an American accent, Woodwardproclaimed her innocence in the death of Matthew Eappen, blamed aflawed US justice system for her fate and insisted she has not soldher story to the British press.Woodward was asked if she had a message for the child's parents,Sunil and Deborah Eappen, who filed a wrongful death lawsuitagainst her earlier this week.It was the first time the 20-year-old au pair has spokenpublicly since she was found guilty of manslaughter in the death ofMatthew, the 8-month-old infant who died in her care in February1997.On Tuesday, the SJC upheld her manslaughter conviction butrefused to order a new sentence, freeing Woodward to leave Bostonfor England.
The next day, she caught a first-class seat on aBritish Airways overnight flight.Though several reporters accompanied Woodward on the plane toLondon's Heathrow Airport, bodyguards including a Massachusettsstate trooper in full uniform paid by the airline barred anyonefrom getting close to her or her father.The first-class tickets, worth $4,200 each, were donated by abenefactor who wished to remain anonymous, according to AndrewMiller, the local Member of Parliament for Woodward's home districtof Cheshire.
Miller, who organized the press conference at theManchester airport, maintained the tickets were not paid for by amedia organization.When the Woodwards arrived in London, a pack of British andAmerican reporters and cameramen trampled each other to get asclose as possible to the somber-looking father and daughter.Though they were to fly from London to Manchester in a smallerjet, British Airways told Woodward and her father that they couldnot guarantee security from reporters on the plane.
As a result,Miller drove the Woodwards 200 miles north to Manchester Airportfor the press conference.Reached by phone in Chicago, Deborah Eappen's brother, PaulSpellman, critized Woodward for failing to acknowlege his sisterand brother-in-law during the press conference, and said the familyis offended that she still won't acknowlege her responsibility.Back in Elton, Woodward was escorted by local police to herfront door.
She bounded out of a chauffered minibus and hugged hersister Vicky.
Cassie, the family's German shepherd, joined in thecelebration.The Woodward family then posed for photographers on their frontstoop under rainy and gray skies, then disappeared into the house.Later, Woodward withdrew to the bedroom she kept as a teenager,filled with stuffed animals and lined with posters of British rockgroups Pulp and Pet Shop Boys.Woodward's arrival home was greeted with near and deliberatesilence from residents.
Few villagers were on the street asWoodward's calvacade drove by.Many said they are still embarrassed by images of supportersquaffing champagne and singing soccer victory songs afterWoodward's conviction was reduced to manslaughter six months ago.Others said they have become disillusioned after allegations thatthe Woodwards misused money in their defense fund, and reports thatone of Woodward's lawyers, under arrest for drunken driving,blurted out that she had come to believe her client was guilty.Stop, as they once exclaimed in Certs commercials: You're bothright.
Sales pitches for a wide variety of products are indeedbeing infused with increasingly explicit images and language, whichuntil recently had been considered too daring for conventionaladvertising.The trend to be rude, crude and sometimes lewd is bringing theAmerican advertising sensibility somewhat closer to the attitudesthat have long prevailed in Europe, where consumers are routinelyexposed to naked bodies, swearing and obvious sexual situations inbrand campaigns.Though Americans are still unlikely to see a bare-breasted womanutter a four-letter word in a commercial, provocative ploys thatwere once confined to ads for niche products in fringe media baggy jeans advertised in snowboarding magazines aimed at youngmen, for instance are making their way into the mainstream.The penchant to test the boundaries of taste is just anotherexample of how advertisers try to stay contemporary, updating howthey speak and behave to reflect how consumers actually speak andbehave.Displaying undraped body parts or using a vernacular term for achild of unmarried parents is also seen as a method for marketersto capitalize on the recent loosening of strictures in films,television programs, music, greeting cards and other forms ofpopular culture.
Another factor is the increasingly detailed newscoverage of sexual topics ranging from the Monica Lewinsky matterto the introduction of Viagra.Some see the increase in foul language, bathroom humor and bawdyimagery as an inevitable result of the evolution of masscommunications in American society.Others condemn the changes as ploys by advertisers to getnoticed in the same manner that children shout dirty words inpublic to embarrass their parents.
Those critics view the trend asdistressing evidence of the further coarsening of public discourse.Bodily functions from passing gas and urination to vomiting anddefecation are depicted and alluded to in advertising for shoes,automobiles, software, games even food.Then there is the more daring sexual imagery, extending farbeyond traditional realms like fashion and fragrance advertisinginto such categories as shampoo, beer, video games, cars andresorts.
Some ads flaunt signs of arousal, others are festoonedwith phallic symbols while still others present simulations ofsexual intercourse.Though a good deal of this advertising is salacious, in manyinstances the ads are meant to be playful, elbowing consumers inthe ribs with a wink.That was the intent of a campaign last year to promote Bermudatourism.
These ads showed a lovestruck couple enjoying a vacationamid exaggerated symbols of amour: windsocks rising in a stiffbreeze, golf balls slowly being sunk, tall lighthouses looming overlandscapes.The inclusion of questionable material in advertising is notnew, of course.
Milder forms of sexual innuendo have been used inadvertising for decades.
More recently, many smaller marketersdetermined that they could overcome consumer ennui as well as thehandicap of being outspent by larger competitors by lacing theircampaigns with heavier doses of suggestive material.For instance, ads by DeVito/Verdi for Daffy's, a chain ofdiscount clothing stores, mocked the prices charged by departmentstores by arranging the sleeves of a shirt so that they made adismissive gesture that many consider offensive.The push to get noticed by performing the advertising equivalentof dropping one's pants has had larger consequences.Among the blue-chip brands that have recently sponsored one ormore ads that in some fashion tested the limits of acceptabilityare Altoids, Elizabeth Arden, Audi, Bass, Budweiser, Casio,Columbia Sportswear, Grey Poupon, Gucci, Kraft, MM/Mars, MillerLite, Nike and Toyota.Does that mean that the bold and brassy or the vulgar andtasteless style of advertising is already going out of style?Yes, and no.There is a watercolor, painted with her happy blues and reds anda touch of leaf green (in her work, one often finds leaf green),that the artist Nelly Toll made as an 8-year-old child in wartimePoland.
It depicts a little girl with a red ribbon in her hairbrushing her big, docile shepherd dog in a large wash basin, whileher mother prepares food in their enormous kitchen.In reality, Ms. Toll and her mother, in 1943, had no home.
Ms.Toll's younger brother had been one of the first Polish Jews to besent to Auschwitz.
Her father was in the ghetto, where he woulddie.
Ms. Toll and her mother spent much of the war hiding from theNazis in the two-room apartment of a gentile couple.
When therewere visitors, mother and daughter hid in a space so narrow theyhad to stand sideways.
As for dogs, Ms. Toll had a terror of them.Ms.
Toll has master's degrees in counseling, art therapy and arthistory.
She slips into the jargon and makes a second getaway.Where does the trick come from that enables one to do a reverseprint of reality, throwing up pretty watercolors in yellows andreds when you are living in the colors of genocide and war?Ms.
Toll painted 64 watercolors in the 13 months she and hermother were in hiding.
(Six will be auctioned at Sotheby's nextFriday.)
All show scenes of a happy childhood.Ms.
Toll, who favors dangling earrings and has an accentevocative of borscht, is a welcoming, exuberant sort.Her ability to convert scenes of war to scenes of seemingnormalcy, Ms. Toll believes, was the gift of her mother, Rose.After the war, Ms. Toll's mother remarried and had anotherdaughter.
The family came to the United States in 1951.
Today, Ms.Toll seems to inhabit the world she painted as a child: leaf-green,happy domesticity.
Married, with two children and fivegrandchildren, Ms. Toll lives in a suburb of generous green lawns.She is an adjunct professor of creative writing.
She also lectureson Holocaust art.During her time in hiding, did she ever paint a picture that wasnot sad?When she experienced other difficulties in life, did she turnfrom them?
How did she behave when her mother was dying of cancer,five years ago?Her wish to keep where she lives and works out of the papers?A Galveston man who allegedly gained entry to a NASA missioncontrol room and a Navy flight simulator by claiming to be anastronaut, an ex-CIA agent and a Medal of Honor winner, will beheld for further psychiatric evaluation.After a hearing Wednesday, U.S. Magistrate Judge Calvin Botleyruled there is probable cause to continue holding Jerry AllenWhittredge, 49, who was jailed May 30 on a federal criminalcomplaint.Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Schultz said Thursday thatWhittredge will be sent to a federal medical prison facility, suchas one in Fort Worth, for observation by government psychiatrists.Botley approved a 30-day detention that could be extended for15-day intervals if doctors need the extra time, Schultz said.Whittredge is accused of lying to federal agents on severaloccasions, punishable on conviction by five years in prison percount, and of impersonating a federal employee, punishable by threeyears per count.
Each offense also carries a fine of up to$250,000.Although the government normally has 30 days after arrest toobtain a grand jury indictment, the clock stopped after about twoweeks so that Whittredge's mental state could be evaluated, Schultzsaid.Described by high school classmates in Port Arthur as a talentedorator with an interest in science, Whittredge allegedly talked hisway into a flight simulator at the Naval Air Station at Kingsvilleand into NASA's mission control room in Huntsville, Ala.He allegedly lied to officials at those sites to obtain accessand later to investigators in the case.WASHINGTON President Clinton on Thursday named United NationsAmbassador Bill Richardson as his choice for energy secretary andtapped veteran diplomat Richard Holbrooke for the U.N. post.Flanked by his foreign policy team in the Rose Garden, thepresident also called on Congress to pass legislation paying themore than $1 billion the United States owes the United Nations inback dues.
The bill is stalled because conservatives insist onincluding anti-abortion language in the measure.Richardson, 50, a former New Mexico congressman who gained areputation as an international trouble-shooter prior to being theU.N.
ambassador, will become the highest ranking Hispanic in theadministration.
He replaces Federico Pena who served astransportation secretary and most recently as energy secretary.Clinton continued to signal his emphasis on clean energyalternatives as he emphasized the issue of climate change inannouncing Richardson's appointment.Holbrooke, 57, brokered the 1995 Dayton Accord that brought arestless peace to Bosnia after four years of civil war and mostrecently worked on quieting the issue of Cyprus that has longdivided Greece and Turkey.Holbrooke, his voice wavering, recalled his father taking him tosee the newly built U.N. buildings as an 8-year-old and telling himthey would become the most important in the world.WASHINGTON As a congressman and later as the Clintonadministration's chief delegate to the United Nations, BillRichardson displayed a flair for missions that required a sense ofderring-do, like the time he persuaded officials in Pyongyang torelease an American who stole into North Korea to convert all itscitizens to Christianity.Richardson's model as free-form diplomatic troubleshooter hasbeen as much Indiana Jones as Henry Kissinger as he has traveled toodd and sometimes fearsome parts of the world, including Sudan,Iraq, Serbia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Myanmar, in addition toNorth Korea.
On many of those missions he has often been successfulin winning the release of hostages from governments and warlordswhen traditional diplomacy had failed to do so.In choosing Richardson to be his new energy secretary, PresidentClinton has given him an assignment which traditionally carries farless glamour and less opportunity for a high public profile.
But noone in the capital expects Richardson to recede into relativeobscurity.But even as people expect him to be confirmed by the Senate, noone expects that process to occur without its own drama.
As U.N.ambassador, Richardson played an intriguing, perhaps significant,role in the Monica Lewinsky story and he would likely be questionedabout it at any confirmation hearing.Ms.
Lewinsky is the former White House intern who is at thecenter of the current investigation by Whitewater prosecutorKenneth Starr, of Clinton.
Starr is investigating whether thepresident had an intimate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, liedabout it under oath and encouraged her to conceal it as well.When Ms. Lewinsky was leaving a job at the public affairs officeat the Pentagon last fall, Richardson met with her in his officialsuite at the Watergate apartments to discuss a possible job for herthe U.S. mission at the United Nations.
He offered her a job whichshe declined in favor of a corporate post in New York.Investigators are trying to find out if the job offer fromRichardson was part of an inducement for Ms. Lewinsky not to sayanything damaging about the president.William Blaine Richardson was born in Pasadena, Calif., on Nov.15, 1947, and graduated from the Middlesex School and TuftsUniversity, both in Massachusetts.
As a young man, he wasconsidered a major-league pitching prospect.
He and his wife,Barbara, who have no children, live in the Waldorf-Astoriaapartment provided for U.N. ambassadors.In one of his most celebrated missions, Richardson successfullynegotiated the release of three Westerners including a U.S. pilotin the middle of the Sudanese desert.
He persuaded the rebelleaders to drop their demand for millions of dollars in exchangefor tons of food along with jeeps and radios.As Washington's U.N. ambassador, Richardson compiled whatdiplomats have viewed as an impressive list of achievements,including persuading the new leader of Congo to allow aninvestigation of human rights abuses and as a principal advocate ofa tough U.S. policy towards Iraq.He recently has been criticized by some diplomats for failing toperceive, during a visit to New Delhi, India's intentions to engagein nuclear testing.In May, Richardson became the first U.S.
Cabinet official tovisit Afghanistan in more than two decades and obtained anagreement from the warring factions to begin peace talks, and hewas Clinton's choice to try to ease the dying leader of Zaire,Mobutu Sese Seko, out of office.Richardson was regarded warmly at the United Nations, especiallyamong the diplomats of the developing world who are often ignoredby U.S. officials, for his backslapping, informal nature and hispolitical skills.
He made much of his part-Hispanic background andliked socializing with delegates.WASHINGTON In a move certain to draw a presidential veto, theRepublican-controlled House approved legislation Thursday thatwould allow parents to set up tax-free savings accounts to helpcover tuition at private or parochial elementary and secondaryschools.The bill, which passed 225-197, would allow parents, relatives,friends and even corporations to contribute up to $2,000 a year perchild into tax-free savings accounts that could be used for publicschool expenses as well.The legislation also expands the amount Congress approved lastyear for college and other post-secondary education savingsaccounts from $500 to $2,000 per child.
The measure also included aprovision offered by Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth, that willallow the creation of tax-free, prepaid college tuition plans forboth private and public institutions.The bill is expected to pass the Senate later this month, butPresident Clinton has promised to veto it on grounds it wouldundermine the public education system by encouraging parents tosend their children to private and religious schools.
Clintonappears at the moment to have the upper hand on the issue becausesupporters of the savings accounts do not have the two-thirds voteneeded to override a presidential veto.Archer also emphasized that the savings accounts could be usedto help with school-associated transportation costs and the specialneeds of disabled children.The savings account measure is expected to cost the federalgovernment about $1.6 billion over the next 10 years.
Clinton andother opponents of the bill say that the money could be put tobetter use by building more schools to help reduce class sizes andby hiring more qualified teachers.So far, Republican leaders in Congress have blocked Democraticbills that would fund the hiring of 100,000 more teachers andincrease the budget for new schools and expanded child-careprograms.
Instead, they've made tax breaks through the savingsaccounts the centerpiece of their education agenda.House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Sugar Land, said one of thegoals of the GOP education agenda is to improve public schools bymaking them more competitive.
Offering tax breaks, he said, is oneway to accomplish that goal because it pressures public schoolsraise their standards.The Republican bill also includes $217 million for the creationof a literacy program to help train more teachers in readinginstruction.
It also encourages states through financial incentivesto establish regular teacher testing programs as well as merit payscales to help reward teachers for exceptional work.
XXXXXXXXEND OF STORYThursday, after Woodward arrived back in England a convictedfelon, the disillusioned vocals fell silent, and she spoke up forherself: loudly, boldly and defensively.In a clear voice tinged with an American accent, Woodwardproclaimed her innocence in the death of Matthew Eappen, blamed aflawed US justice system for her fate and insisted she has not soldher story to the British press.Woodward was asked if she had a message for the child's parents,Sunil and Deborah Eappen, who filed a wrongful death lawsuitagainst her earlier this week.It was the first time the 20-year-old au pair has spokenpublicly since she was found guilty of manslaughter in the death ofMatthew, the 8-month-old infant who died in her care in February1997.On Tuesday, the SJC upheld her manslaughter conviction butrefused to order a new sentence, freeing Woodward to leave Bostonfor England.
The next day, she caught a first-class seat on aBritish Airways overnight flight.Though several reporters accompanied Woodward on the plane toLondon's Heathrow Airport, bodyguards including a Massachusettsstate trooper in full uniform paid by the airline barred anyonefrom getting close to her or her father.The first-class tickets, worth $4,200 each, were donated by abenefactor who wished to remain anonymous, according to AndrewMiller, the local Member of Parliament for Woodward's home districtof Cheshire.
Miller, who organized the press conference at theManchester airport, maintained the tickets were not paid for by amedia organization.When the Woodwards arrived in London, a pack of British andAmerican reporters and cameramen trampled each other to get asclose as possible to the somber-looking father and daughter.Though they were to fly from London to Manchester in a smallerjet, British Airways told Woodward and her father that they couldnot guarantee security from reporters on the plane.
As a result,Miller drove the Woodwards 200 miles north to Manchester Airportfor the press conference.Reached by phone in Chicago, Deborah Eappen's brother, PaulSpellman, critized Woodward for failing to acknowlege his sisterand brother-in-law during the press conference, and said the familyis offended that she still won't acknowlege her responsibility.Back in Elton, Woodward was escorted by local police to herfront door.
She bounded out of a chauffered minibus and hugged hersister Vicky.
Cassie, the family's German shepherd, joined in thecelebration.The Woodward family then posed for photographers on their frontstoop under rainy and gray skies, then disappeared into the house.Later, Woodward withdrew to the bedroom she kept as a teenager,filled with stuffed animals and lined with posters of British rockgroups Pulp and Pet Shop Boys.Woodward's arrival home was greeted with near and deliberatesilence from residents.
Few villagers were on the street asWoodward's calvacade drove by.Many said they are still embarrassed by images of supportersquaffing champagne and singing soccer victory songs afterWoodward's conviction was reduced to manslaughter six months ago.Others said they have become disillusioned after allegations thatthe Woodwards misused money in their defense fund, and reports thatone of Woodward's lawyers, under arrest for drunken driving,blurted out that she had come to believe her client was guilty.AUSTIN Republican Rick Perry and Democrat John Sharp arevirtually tied in their race for lieutenant governor with a thirdof the likely voters undecided, the Texas Poll indicates.Republicans lead all the other campaigns for statewide executiveoffices, the poll showed, except for the attorney general's race,where Democrat Jim Mattox is trying to reclaim the post he held foreight years.The survey of 691 likely voters was conducted June 1-12 byScripps Howard and the Office of Survey Research at the Universityof Texas.
It did not include judicial races.Perry, the current state agriculture commissioner, leads Sharp,the state comptroller, 35 percent to 31 percent, in the race tosucceed Lt. Gov.
Bob Bullock, who is retiring in January.Perry's support was identical to the 35 percent he received in aTexas Poll conducted in March, but Sharp dropped 10 percentagepoints from his March showing.
The level of undecided voters,meanwhile, increased from 19 percent to 32 percent.Austin political analyst George Christian said Republicancandidates were benefiting from Gov.
George W. Bush's popularity atthe top of the GOP ticket.
Bush has a 53-point lead over Democraticchallenger Garry Mauro, according to the same poll.Christian said Mattox, who won two races for attorney general inthe 1980s and ran unsuccessfully for governor and U.S. senatorsince then, led partly because he is better known than Cornyn.1) Republican Carole Keeton Rylander, a Texas Railroadcommissioner, leads Democrat Paul Hobby, a Houston businessman, by38 percent to 26 percent in the race for state comptroller.Thirty-five percent of respondents are undecided.2) Republican David Dewhurst, a Houston businessman, is backedby 37 percent of likely voters in the land commissioner's race.Twenty-four percent favor state Rep. Richard Raymond of Benavides,the Democratic nominee.
Thirty-eight percent are undecided.3) Former Secretary of State Tony Garza, the Republican nominee,leads Democrat Joe B. Henderson, 43 percent to 23 percent, for theTexas Railroad Commission, with 33 percent undecided.4) Former state Rep. Susan Combs of Austin, the Republicannominee for agriculture commissioner, leads state Rep. PetePatterson of Brookston, the Democratic candidate, 39 percent to 27percent with 33 percent are undecided.Both the March poll sample and the current poll sample included31 percent Republicans, poll director Ty Meighan said.
But theshare of Democratic respondents dropped from 34 percent in March to25 percent in this survey.According to the Texas Poll, Sharp, who has been trying todistance his campaign from that of Mauro, the Democraticgubernatorial nominee, is favored by 30 percent of independentvoters, who are key to statewide elections.Garza, who is trying to become the first Hispanic Republicanelected to statewide office in Texas, has a 48 percent to 31percent lead over Henderson among Hispanic voters and a 43 percentto 21 percent lead among Anglos.WASHINGTON President Clinton and congressional leaders fromboth parties jockeyed Thursday for political advantage from theSenate's votes Wednesday night to shelve comprehensive tobaccolegislation.Without offering many details, House Speaker Newt Gingrich saidthat he would put forward next week a low-budget alternative to theSenate bill, a measure that would be tightly focused ondiscouraging teen-agers from smoking.
Gingrich said the bill wouldgo before the House for a vote in July.The Senate bill would have raised the price of cigarettes by atleast $1.10 a package over five years, allowed the Food and DrugAdministration to regulate cigarette advertising and marketing andforced the tobacco companies to pay stiff penalties if the level ofteen-age smoking did not fall to specified levels.After debating the bill for a month, the Senate set it asideWednesday night.
An effort by supporters to win the 60 votesnecessary to cut off debate and bring the measure to a final votefell 3 votes short.
All but two Democrats voted to stop the debate,but they were joined by only 14 of the 54 Republicans who voted.Democrats swore that they would bring up the measure again andagain this year, but a vote Thursday illustrated how dim theprospects are that they will succeed in getting the bill passed.Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle offered the original Senatebill as an amendment to a bill providing money for energy and waterprojects.
The Daschle effort was blocked, 54-44, on a party-linevote.At a joint news conference, Daschle and House Minority LeaderDick Gephardt struggled for new ways to attack the Republicanopponents of the legislation.His bill, Gingrich said, would give the Food and DrugAdministration new authority to regulate the marketing ofcigarettes and would have provisions to restrict teen-agers' accessto cigarettes.Rep.
Deborah Pryce of Ohio, who heads the Republicans' groupdeveloping the bill, said that the measure would also offerinducements to states to withdraw the driver's licenses ofteen-agers caught buying or possessing cigarettes.BOSTON Nearly three out of every 10 households with childrenin Massachusetts have no father in the home, according to a reportreleased Thursday by the Massachusetts Family Institute.In its second annual report on Massachusetts families, theinstitute estimated that 29 percent of families had no fathersliving with them in 1997, up 2 percent since 1995 and almostquadruple the percentage in 1960.
The estimates were generated forthe institute by the Massachusetts Institute for Social andEconomic Research in Amherst using US Census data.
Jetta Bernier, executive director of the Massachusetts Committeefor Children and Youth, said the issue of fatherlessness resonateswith many child and family advocacy groups, liberal andconservative.But, she said, lack of education and job training, and thefailure of wages to keep pace with inflation, have made itdifficult for low-income men to form stable, strong relationshipswith their children and their mothers.Thousands of patients who were taking a blood pressure drugcalled Posicor which was withdrawn from the market on June 8because of dangerous interactions with many other medications areat risk of life-threatening reactions if doctors abruptly switchthem to alternate medications, researchers warned Thursday.An estimated 200,000 Americans, and 400,000 worldwide, weretaking Posicor before the manufacturer withdrew it earlier thismonth.
The drug had been approved only a year earlier for highblood pressure and chest pain.Posicor's manufacturer, Roche Laboratories, has recentlyconfiscated supplies of Posicor from pharmacies and hospitals.
Butan unknown number of patients still may have unused supplies of thedrug.Moreover, some specialists said, many doctors may not realizethe dangers of switching abruptly from Posicor to another drug ofthe same type, known as calcium channel blockers.It was already known that Posicor, known generically asmibefradil, should never be taken along with two widely prescribedcalcium channel blockers called verapamil (brand names Calan,Isoptin or Verelan) or diltiazem (Cardizem).However, the authors of the upcoming AMA Journal report said noone had realized the risk of switching to other calcium channelblockers before Posicor had been flushed from patients' systems.Among those other drugs are nifedipine (Adalat or Procardia),felodipine (Plendil), and nimodipine (Nimotop).He added that patients who had been taking Posicor shouldprobably not be taking another heart and blood pressure drug calleda beta blocker, such as timolol (Blocadren) or propranolol(Inderal), for at least 14 days after stopping Posicor.The problem, experts said, is that Posicor lingers in the bodyfor days.
Roche issued a letter to doctors a week ago advising adelay of seven days after discontinuing Posicor before beginningtreatment with most other calcium channel blockers or betablockers.Horowitz said patients could safely be switched from Posicor toother types of blood pressure drugs, called ACE inhibitors orangiotensin-II inhibitors.
However, Dr. Irene Gavras of BostonMedical Center said it most patients should wait for Posicor to bewashed out of their system before beginning any other drug.Acting commissioner Bud Selig has not decided when to call theowners together to elect him commissioner, a Major League Baseballofficial said Thursday, but the meeting will very likely take placeafter the All-Star Game.In a terse statement Thursday, Selig said that discussion of hiswillingness to take the job was premature and that he had not yetaccepted it.
An article in The New York Times on Thursday saidSelig had decided to accept the position full time.Owners and officials throughout baseball said Wednesday, andothers confirmed Thursday, that Selig had responded to a largegroup of owners who want him to be commissioner by signaling hisintention to accept the job.Major league rules stipulate that a vote for commissioner has tobe done with a written ballot.
Since the owners' next quarterlymeeting is not until September, Selig is expected to call a specialmeeting to hold the election.
He has to give the owners 10 days'notice.If Selig had decided not to accept the job, Jerry McMorris ofthe Colorado Rockies, the search committee chairman, would havepresented four candidates to the ruling executive council,according to one official close to the commissioner search.National League president Leonard Coleman was the only one of thefour who is already in baseball.
The official did not identify thethree people outside baseball.McMorris declined to comment on the candidates.
He also declinedto discuss Selig as commissioner because, he said, the MilwaukeeBrewers' owner has not told him he wants the job.Because Selig owns one of the teams he would be overseeing, heis expected to take some action regarding the Brewers.
The mostlikely option is that he would put his share of the team into atrust.This is the second search since Fay Vincent resigned ascommissioner in September 1992 that has ended without a candidateother than Selig being considered by the executive council.The Democrats plan to pound the Republicans on the smoking issuethrough the November elections, arguing that they are doing thebidding of the tobacco industry.And the Republican leadership will buck any attempt to resurrectthe $516 billion anti-smoking legislation that would have raisedcigarette prices by a $1.10 a pack.House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga, said a plan to be debatednext month would likely include an anti-smoking advertisingcampaign and provide incentives to states to discourage teen-agesmoking, such as denying driver's licenses to underage smokers.The measure would also give the Food and Drug Administration theauthority to regulate tobacco products and would curb tobaccomarketing to teens.
However, it would not include the hefty priceincreases that public health advocates say is necessary todiscourage teens from buying cigarettes.On Wednesday, after four weeks of debate, a minority of senatorswere able to avoid a straight up or down vote on the anti-tobaccobill sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and effectively killthe measure through parliamentary maneuvers.The next day, Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.,signaled that his party intended to keep the issue alive by tryingto attach the anti-smoking bill to an unrelated appropriationsbill.The effort failed.
But Daschle sounded the theme echoedthroughout the day by fellow Democrats that tobacco industrycontributions to the GOP played a big role in the legislation'sdemise.At the White House, President Clinton suggested that theRepublicans had responded to a $40 million tobacco advertisingcampaign which portrayed the bill as a big-tax, big-governmentscheme.But the president said that he had heard that a bipartisan groupof eight senators may be formed to try and salvage the anti-tobaccoinitiative.However, many of the extras tacked onto the bill had been pushedby Lott's fellow Republicans, including Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,who tied up the Senate for days over his proposal to cut taxes formarried couples.Public health advocates, still reeling from the defeat of a billthey have labored over for much of the year, also said they areunlikely to support measures that do not substantially increase theprice of cigarettes.They added that they plan to make the public aware of the 42senators who helped bury the tobacco bill.The public health organizations have spent about $2 million onpublic relations campaigning, but have been far outspent by thetobacco giants.A tobacco industry lobbyist said the TV, radio and newspaper adcampaign will likely continue as the House considers legislationand possibly into the election period to help boost lawmakers whoopposed the McCain bill.While the tobacco executives dodged a sizeable financial hitwith the death of the McCain bill, they still must deal with thenumerous state lawsuits that would have been settled by the McCainbill.The tobacco industry has already reached settlements withMinnesota, Texas, Florida and Mississippi for a total of $36.5billion in damages.
The death of the Senate bill will not affectthose payments.Republicans leaders say they do not believe the tobacco issuewill resonate with voters in the fall.But a recent poll by the independent Pew Research Center foundthat by 62 percent to 29 percent the public favors the governmenttaking some sort of action against the tobacco companies.Poll director Andrew Kohut said that the Democratic argumentthat the GOP is tied to the tobacco industry could hurt Republicansbecause it confirms voter suspicion that the party is beholden tobig business.However, Kohut said that support for action against tobaccocompanies tends to decline somewhat when specifics, such as raisingtaxes, are mentioned.GOP pollster Bill McInturff said that while the McCain bill wasprobably too big and complex, Republicans would be misreadingpublic sentiment if they believed the public opposed doingsomething about tobacco.WASHINGTON The Clinton administration on Thursday mounted itsmost detailed defense of its satellite export control policy, asthree top officials said that China's military had not benefitedfrom transfers of sensitive American technology and that safeguardswere in place to prevent any such leakage.The spirited rebuttals by senior officials from the departmentsof Commerce, State and Defense marked a counteroffensive against agrowing Republican-led attack on the administration's handling ofsatellite exports to China, a policy that Republicans have chargedthreatens American national security.The warning by the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,contained in a memorandum apparently sent to State Departmentofficials, was made public at the House hearing.
The memo undercutone of the White House's fundamental reasons for granting waiversto allow satellite exports to China despite a ban imposed after the1989 massacre in Tiananmen Square.But the agency's advisory was not included in the StateDepartment's official recommendation to the White House earlierthis year.
President Clinton approved the waiver last February,despite objections from the Justice Department that it wouldundermine an ongoing criminal inquiry into whether two satellitemakers divulged sensitive information to Chinese rocket scientists.In an afternoon Senate hearing, Sen. Max Cleland, D-Ga., becameone of the first Democrats to openly criticize the shift oflicensing authority for commercial satellites to the CommerceDepartment from the State Department in 1996.The back-to-back hearings featuring the administration witnessescapped a frenzied day on Capitol Hill over the wide-ranging Chinaaccusations, which comes just a week before Clinton visits China.George Tenet, the director of Central Intelligence, updated theHouse Intelligence Committee in a closed, 2-hour 30-minute briefingon a series of conflicting government assessments as to whether twosatellite makers who are the focus of the Justice inquiry LoralSpace Communications and Hughes Electronics jeopardizednational security by discussing the results of their independentreview of a failed launch of one of their satellites on a ChineseLong March missile in February 1996.With little dissension, the House on Thursday approved aresolution, 409-10, to create a special select committee to leadthe House inquiry into the China accusations.
The 10 who votedagainst the resolution were Democrats.Despite the resolution's bipartisan backing, Democratscriticized Republicans during the debate for spending too muchmoney on duplicate investigations of Clinton and Democraticfund-raising practices.And they expressed concern that the work of the select committeewould fall captive to what they called a Republican witch hunt totarnish Clinton and curry favor with conservative voters.And by transferring commercial satellite licensing authority tothe Commerce Department, the Clinton aides said, the administrationwas completing a shift that Bush started in late 1992.
In anutshell, the State Department considers national securityimplications for sensitive exports, while the Commerce Departmentalso weighs American commercial interests.The General Accounting Office said this shift in licensingauthority had loosened controls of satellite exports.
But Reinschdisagreed, saying the administration had added safeguards,including a broader role for the Pentagon and intelligence agenciesto review export applications.
Critics say these protections stillfall short of the State Department's regime.TOKYO Japan's prime minister is furiously thrashing out thedetails of what the government hopes will emerge as a landmarkblueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts.And the blueprint is likely to be an important topic duringtalks when the deputy U.S. Treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers,meets with Japanese government officials and party leaders onFriday.After playing down the bad-loan problem for years, thegovernment now acknowledges that clearing away the loans may be thesingle most important factor in building confidence overseas and ingiving a lift to the economy.The problem loans, which have swelled to more than $600 billion more than the size of the entire Chinese economy have been adrag on the economy for years but now the government seemsincreasingly determined to clean up the mess over the next threeyears.Some foreign investors are wary of new promises from thegovernment because they have been let down so many times.
But otheranalysts and economists say that while enormous uncertaintiesremain, there are signs that the government may finally be ready toimplement the Total Plan, as it is being called here.The changes would take time but they could result in a sounderbanking sector, a more vibrant real estate market and a healthiereconomy overall.But Yoshitomi argues that up until now, only the politicianshave broken from the pack to tackle the bad debt while theregulators and the banks themselves have shown enormous reluctance.The Total Plan is being hammered out by about two dozenhigh-level Liberal Democrat politicians and bureaucrats, who willconvene a major session next Tuesday to review a draft.
Thechairman is Okiharu Yasuoka, a Liberal Democrat member of the lowerhouse.The plan has been through many versions and is still changing,and about $17 billion has been set aside for it in the government's$123 billion stimulus package.
As described by governmentofficials, economists and bankers, the Total Plan focuses on thebad loans and on the properties Japanese banks are stuck withbecause they were the collateral for the loans.In the past banks have often set aside reserves for questionableloans but they generally have not sold those properties orliquidated the bad loans.
One result has been a huge drag on theproperty market and a continuing burden on the banks.The Total Plan calls for measures to encourage the banks to sellthe properties and remove both the loans and the collateral fromtheir books.
This may be a wrenching process, for the sale of somuch real estate could drive property prices lower, and theobligation to face up to the problems could force weak banks out ofbusiness.
This could be another blow to confidence in the Japaneseeconomy.But supporters say that the plan at least offers a way out ofthe mess, even if it is a risky and laborious passage.This would be the clearest break from the current system inwhich all banks, strong and weak, are pulled along together by thegovernment.The government already has a Resolution and Collection Bank,which can absorb failed institutions, but its activities are notcomprehensive enough to deal fully with bankrupt banks.Ryuji Konishi, an economic consultant and former bankingexecutive who favors the idea, compares the bridge bank to afishnet that catched only the fish too weak to swim away on theirown.Not surprisingly, the weak banks are extremely sensitive to thisproposal because they do not want to be, in effect, taken over bythe government.Earlier this year, the government also put together a $221billion bank bailout that would support depositors and help thebanks rebuild their capital.But the banks have drawn only 1.8 trillion yen.
Weak banks arereluctant to ask for money for fear that such an admission ofweakness would drive down their share prices.Some foreign investors would like to see the government put upeven more than 30 trillion yen, either through a bridge bank oranother rescue package.NEW YORK A surge in companies issuing stock for the first timeand a raging pace of corporate takeovers powered robustsecond-quarter earnings at two leading brokerage firms.Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Co., the second-largest Americaninvestment bank by capital after Merrill Lynch Co., said earningsfor the period ended May 31 jumped 45 percent, compared with a yearago, to $854 million, or $1.37 a fully diluted share.
LehmanBrothers Holdings, the fourth-largest brokerage firm, said earningsrose 168 percent from a year earlier, to $324 million, or $2.12 ashare.Both companies said a blistering pace of mergers andacquisitions in America and overseas bolstered advisory fees.
Thecompanies also reported sharp increases in equity and debt issuesand trading.Despite signs that the long-running bull market in stocks may beslowing, both companies said record backlogs of new debt and equityissues and ongoing mergers promise continued strong earnings growthinto the second half of the year.One reason for the sharp gains was the record pace of merger andacquisition activity.
Morgan told Wall Street analysts in aconference call that the value of deals in which companies boughtother companies totaled $1 trillion in the first half of this year.Companies also sold nearly half a trillion dollars in securitiesduring the first half.
Both figures were records.Both companies benefited from a strong international presence.Even in Asia, where financial markets have plunged, results weresharply higher.
That is because volatility in those markets means asharply higher pace of selling and buying, and the brokeragecompanies earn their fees based on transaction volume.Like the United States, Europe has had a strong stock market,but that market is seen as at an earlier stage in its rally.Moreover, market activity looks set to increase in the run-up toEuropean monetary union early next year, with some Americansecurities companies well placed to benefit from that surge.Morgan's strong performance comes about one year after theinstitutional business of Morgan Stanley merged with the retailbrokerage operations of Dean Witter.
Both sides of the businessreported record earnings, Scott, the chief financial officer, said.At Lehman, which become an independent listed company when itwas spun off by American Express Co. in 1994, this year's secondquarter continued a string of strong growth that has seen itsannual profits rise to $647 million in 1997 from $113 million in1994.WASHINGTON Iraq is smuggling large volumes of oil into Turkeyin violation of U.N. sanctions, U.S. and Turkish officials say.The officials say the Clinton administration has chosen to lookthe other way, aware that the smuggling benefits Turkey, a crucialally in the American policy toward Iraq, and Kurds who deny theIraqi government of President Saddam Hussein control over northernIraq.Still, the region is replete with double-dealing and surprisingalliances, and administration officials acknowledge that theKurdish leader benefiting from the smuggling betrayed the UnitedStates less than two years ago.The operation involves thousands of trucks transporting millionsof tons of oil, diesel fuel and other refined products annually,openly traversing roads that U.S. and allied warplanes fly over innorthern Iraq, officials acknowledge.The smuggling conduit into Turkey is enriching Saddam'sgovernment and family, these officials say, at a time when he ischafing under U.N. restrictions on official oil exports, which havebeen in place since the end of the Persian Gulf War eight yearsago.Until the United Nations determines that the Iraqi governmenthas eliminated programs to develop weapons of mass destruction, ithas prohibited Iraq from exporting oil except through a limitedprogram to raise humanitarian relief money.But the Clinton administration has decided not to try to stopthe smuggling even though the United States is trying to holdtogether a coalition in support of economic sanctions against Iraq.The smuggling, which has been going on for years, has become solucrative that Turkish truckers have welded external fuel-storagetanks onto their trucks to cash in on the business.Much larger tanker trucks are also involved, according toTurkish and Kurdish officials.
At times, the trucks involved in thesmuggling have been so numerous that they have clogged traffic.
Thesmuggling operation is primarily funneled across the Turkish borderat the Khabour Bridge near the southeastern Turkish town of Silopi,according to U.S., Turkish and Kurdish officials.One energy expert in the Turkish government who spoke on thecondition of anonymity estimated that Iraqi smuggling now accountsfor about 25 percent of the Turkish fuel market, making it asignificant concern to international oil companies trying tocompete in Turkey.Turkish government officials, meanwhile, have been meeting todiscuss ways to control the smuggling, in conjunction with theirefforts to deregulate the country's fuel markets, Turkish officialssaid.Officially, the U.N. prohibits all Iraqi oil exports exceptthose that generate money for humanitarian aid in Iraq as well asfor Gulf war victims.
In May, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annanapproved Iraq's plan for distributing food and medicine purchasedunder this program, paving the way for Iraq to increase the amountof oil that Iraq could export under the plan from $2 billion to$5.2 billion worth of oil over the next six months.All other Iraqi oil exports are officially banned, but inaddition to the smuggling through Turkey and the Persian Gulf, Iraqships about 100,000 barrels of oil a day to Jordan.
Jordan isalmost completely dependent on Iraqi oil, and the shipments toJordan have been informally accepted by the United Nations, U.S.officials say.Officials say the Clinton administration has never moved to curbthe smuggling, choosing instead to appease the Turks and theKurdish faction that controls the northern Iraqi territory and theborder crossing.But the smuggling has clearly gone from being a minor loopholein the embargo against Iraqi oil into a much more significantsource of income for Saddam and a well entrenched outlet for theIraqis.With no American or allied effort to impede the traffic, between50,000 and 60,000 barrels of Iraqi oil and fuel products a day arenow being smuggled along the Turkish route, Clinton administrationofficials estimate.Iraq also smuggles oil by water, to Iran, Dubai and other spots.The Turkish and Persian Gulf routes smuggle roughly equal amountsof oil and together account for up to 10 percent of Iraq's exportcapacity, U.S. officials estimate.U.S.
warships, as part of a multinational force, have beentrying for several years to curb sea-borne smuggling, stopping somebarges and other vessels in international waters in the PersianGulf, administration officials said.Earlier this year, Iran briefly curbed the Iraqi oil smugglingtrade along its waterways, but U.S. officials say the smugglingthrough the Gulf route is now surging once again.Administration officials say they believe that Saddam gets asmaller cut of the profits from the Turkish operation than from theGulf operation.
Kurdish leaders, Turkish trucking interests andundoubtedly Turkish governmental officials along the border skimoff levies on the smuggling, U.S. officials say.Administration officials say that Turkey has suffered soseverely as a result of international sanctions on Iraq that theUnited States has decided to continue allowing the Turks to benefitfrom Iraqi oil smuggling.
In addition, administration officialssay, the smuggling benefits the Kurdistan Democratic Party ofKurdish leader Masoud Barzani, which taxes the oil as it passesthrough its territory.Yet Kurdish leaders from the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistancomplain that the Clinton administration's decision to allowBarzani to benefit from the smuggling is enriching a Kurdish leaderwho betrayed the United States less than two years ago.Barzani, who was formerly on the CIA's payroll, double-crossedthe agency by inviting the Iraqi army into his territory in August1996, crushing a U.S. covert action program that was based onKurdish support, according to U.S. intelligence officials.Barzani's actions led to the scattering of thousands of Kurdsand other dissidents who had supported the U.S. effort to underminesupport for Saddam.
About 6,000 Kurds were eventually providedrefuge in the United States after Barzani's betrayal.Now, rival Kurdish leaders say that the smuggling business isearning Barzani millions of dollars, while putting him directlyinto business with Uday Hussein, Saddam's son.
The rival Kurds saythat at least part of the Barzani group's revenues are paid askickbacks to Uday Hussein.
Independent oil experts agree that UdayHussein appears to be in overall charge of smuggling operations.
The department reported that the trade deficit for Aprilexpanded to a new monthly high of $14.5 billion, well above the$13.3 billion projected by many economists, and up sharply from$13.2 billion in March.The rise was partly accounted for by technical changes in theway the government measures aircraft exports, and reflected theswollen value of the dollar in relation to Asian currencies.
Butthe figures showed that the deepening economic slump through muchof Asia was drying up demand for many types of goods, costing U.S.exporters orders in what had been one of their fastest-growingmarkets.Total exports in April fell by 2.5 percent, to $77.1 billion,the lowest level in 14 months.
Imports decreased eight-tenths of 1percent, to $91.6 billion.The drop in exports suggested that economic growth was slowingfrom a robust pace earlier in the year.
A slowdown would reduce therisks of an increase in inflation, which many analysts think is themain threat to sustained economic health.
But it would also cutinto job creation and further bite into corporate profits, aprospect that is already souring the partylike atmosphere on WallStreet.The United States' largest exporter, Boeing Co. of Seattle, saidThursday that it expected a deepening recession in Asia to cost itorders for 90 aircraft over the next five years.
Although thecompany said no Asian airlines had yet canceled any orders, Boeinghas already announced plans to slow production of its flagship 747jumbo jet.Farmers, manufacturers of industrial materials and automakersare also affected particularly hard by the export crunch, theCommerce Department said.
Texas Instruments, the technologycompany, said Thursday that it would cut 3,500 jobs worldwide 8percent of its work force because of weak demand forsemiconductors from Asia and deep price cuts by Asian competitorsstruggling to survive the downturns in their home markets.Glassman said he expects growth to slow to 1.5 percent in thesecond quarter from 4.8 percent in the first quarter, and to beroughly flat in the second half of the year before rebounding in1999.Other analysts are less pessimistic, saying the economy islikely to continue growing, albeit at a more moderate pace, throughthe second half.
And debate continues among economists aboutwhether Asia's effects alone will cool the domestic economysufficiently to avert the need for an inflation-fightinginterest-rate increase by the Federal Reserve Board.But the trade figures underscored the stake the United Stateshas in helping to bring Asia's downward economic spiral undercontrol.Asia's troubles have so far brought as many benefits asdrawbacks to the United States, including lower interest rates thathave helped fuel a housing boom and allowed many homeowners to savemoney by refinancing their mortgages.
But in the long run,economists said, the nation needs financial stability and economicgrowth abroad to sustain the vibrant domestic expansion that beganin 1991.Fearful that a long slide in the value of the Japanese currencycould exacerbate Asia's problems and infect the rest of the world,the Clinton administration joined with the Japanese government onWednesday to buy yen, a move that administration officialsacknowledged was only a temporary measure.The White House has been pushing Japan to do more to revive itsown economy and help the rest of Asia.
And the administration hasbeen pressing Congress to provide more financing for theInternational Monetary Fund in case the financial instabilityspreads.The trade deficit has grown steadily throughout this year asJapan slipped into recession and the economies of Indonesia,Thailand, South Korea and other big markets spiraled downward.The growth in the deficit has been pushed along in recent monthsby the steep decline in the yen's value, reflecting the deep-rootedfinancial and economic problems bedeviling Japan at a time when theUnited States has been enjoying steady growth and low inflation.The rise in the dollar relative to the yen makes Americanproducts more expensive in Japan and makes Japanese products lessexpensive in the United States.
Although the trade deficit withJapan narrowed in April, to $5.4 billion from $5.8 billion inMarch, economists said they expect the deficit to increase incoming months, reflecting the sharp runup in the dollar relative tothe yen between April and this week's intervention in the currencymarkets.The deficit with China expanded to $4.3 billion in April from$3.8 billion a month earlier.
President Clinton leaves next week ona trip to China, and he is expected to press China to lower tradebarriers to improve its chances of joining the World TradeOrganization and help defuse political tensions with the UnitedStates.The cumulative deficit with the Pacific Rim nations alone forthe first four months of this year was $46.7 billion, a 38 percentincrease over the same period last year.The Commerce Department also said Thursday that the nation'scurrent account deficit, a broader measure of trade performance,expanded to $47.2 billion in the first quarter from $45 billion inthe fourth quarter of 1997.ART ADV: Graphics and photos are being sent, as indicated below,to NYT Graphics and Photos subscribers.
Clients needingretransmission or information, or non-subscribers seeking toarrange individual purchase, should call (212) 556-4204.
THEME-PARKS-RIDES (Undated) To entice repeat visits, amusementparks spend millions of dollars on new thrill rides.
This year,according to Amusement Business, which tracks the $8 billionindustry, is a record one for roller coaster construction, withnearly 80 being built worldwide.INVEST-EDGAR (Undated) Many investors find SEC filings sooff-putting that they never spot the juicy stuff.
Here areshortcuts to use on EDGAR to get to the dirty lowdown, told throughspecific examples.
By Richard Korman.INVEST-ROTH-IRA (Undated) How to get the biggest kick out ofyour ROTH IRA?
Buy the farm.
By Virginia Munger Kahn.EARN-HELP-DESKS (Undated) Help desks, the preserve of customerservice representatives, have to deal with the customer at his orher most stressed.
Turnover is a problem sometimes as high as 300percent annually.
How the best desks keep their people.
By ClaudiaH.
Deutsch.SPEND-TICKET-SWITCH (Undated) The rising costs of switching anonrefundable airline ticket.
Not only do you have to pay $75, upfrom $25 in recent years, but you may not even be able to get thedates you want in crunchy peak seasons.
Also, two other areas ofrising fees: pre-paid ticket and unassisted child travel.
By NoelleKnox.
Graphic.ABOUT-CARS-VOLVO (Undated) You see the reaction from peopleagain and again when driving Volvo's new C70 coupe.
Instinctively,they know the car is a Volvo; the rectangular grille with itsdiagonal slash mark could belong to nothing else.
But the lines aresleek and clean, so the C70 genuinely looks like a car and not, asVolvos have for ages, like the box the car came in.
By James G.Cobb.CAR-SMART-CONVERTIBLE (Undated) Having developed someeye-catching curves, Volvo is going topless.
A convertible versionof the C70 goes on sale early next month, at a starting priceestimated at $44,000.
By James G. Cobb.FUNDS-WATCH (Undated) A weekly report on changes in mutualfunds comings and goings among managers, changes in fees andopenings and closings.
By Carole Gould.LONDON A consortium of American investors, including MicrosoftCorp.
's co-founder, Bill Gates, said Thursday that it had agreed toacquire the British luxury hotel company Cliveden PLC for 42.8million pounds, or $71.1 million.The consortium consists of Destination Europe Ltd., which isowned by two real estate investment firms, Lowe Enterprises and LFStrategic Realty Investors, in addition to Cascade, the personalinvestment company of Gates.Cliveden is best known for the Cliveden Hotel in Berkshire, nearLondon, a stately home set on a 375-acre estate on the bank of theThames.
It was built in the middle of the last century for the Dukeof Sutherland and became the home of the Astor family and the siteof glittering parties in the Edwardian era.
The estate gainednotoriety in 1963 when Harold Macmillan's minister of war, JohnProfumo, was found having an affair there with Christine Keeler, acall girl.The British hotel company also owns the Cliveden Town House nearSloan Square in London and the Royal Crescent Hotel in Bath.
Thecompany is also currently in the process of converting the formerheadquarters of Scottish Equitable in Edinburgh into a luxury hotelscheduled to open next spring.The acquisition comes amid a flurry of investment this year byAmerican companies in Britain's hotel business.
In April,Blackstone Group paid 520 million pounds, and Patriot AmericanHospitality bought Arcadian for 92 million pounds.LF Strategic Realty Investors owns 65 percent of DestinationEurope USA, the holding company for Destination Europe Ltd.; LoweEnterprises owns 25 percent of the company, and Cascade holds 10percent.PARIS An American tour company said Thursday that 15,000 WorldCup tickets were stolen from its Paris office Thursday morning, thelatest twist in the uproar over the sale of tickets for themonthlong tournament.Gillian Pattison, a spokeswoman for Prime Sports International,said burglars broke into the company's offices early Thursday,smashed a safe, grabbed cash worth over $560,000 and made off withtickets for most of the remaining matches, including the final inSt.-Denis on July 12.Police confirmed that the robbery had taken place.
But it wasnot clear why the company, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., had somuch cash or so many tickets in its office.The theft came as complaints continued to pour in from thousandsof fans, including large Belgian, Brazilian and Japanesecontingents, who say tour operators have promised them tickets thathave not been delivered.At least one Paris hotel had to call police to calm an iratecrowd of Brazilians whose promised tickets for the opening match 10days ago had not appeared.Police and prosecutors have opened investigations into possiblefraud that have already led to the arrest of two officials linkedto ISL Worldwide, the official marketing agency of theinternational soccer federation, FIFA, which organizes the WorldCup.The World Cup, held every four years, has turned into anenormous business, with FIFA reaping large payments from the saleof television rights and sponsoring contracts.As the fever to get tickets for games has mounted, prices fortickets have soared, with some reports suggesting that tickets forthe final on July 12 may fetch over $15,000 each.
There appear tobe fortunes to be made on the black market, and advertisements havebegun to appear daily in newspapers from people seeking tickets.To date, police and judicial investigations here have focused onISL France, the French subsidiary of ISL Worldwide, which is basedin Switzerland.
The general director of the subsidiary, MarcLoison, and a consultant, Gilles Favard, have both been detained bypolice for questioning on the possible fraudulent sale of tickets.The arrests followed a lawsuit filed by a French lawyer, FrancisDebacker, representing four Japanese tour operators who said theyhad paid for 15,000 tickets that were promised by Favard but neverdelivered.
In theory, ISL France is supposed to market the WorldCup but not sell any tickets.The sale of tickets was directed by France's central organizingcommittee for the World Cup, which was further embarrassed Thursdayby reports that a confidential phone number leaked to a fewprivileged fans allowed them to buy huge blocks of seats when170,000 tickets were put up for sale on a first-come, first-servedbasis on April 22.Bruno Travade, a spokesman for the organizing committee, saidthe committee had asked France Telecom, the country's maintelephone company, to conduct an investigation into the existenceof a secret number and would file charges if necessary.Official phone lines were constantly busy when the tickets wenton sale, and newspapers here were full of calculations frommathematicians putting the odds of getting through at one inseveral million.As the ticket scandal raged, police moved to stop trouble onanother front.
The sale of alcohol around a Paris stadium, the Parcdes Princes, was banned during matches and for several hours beforeand after them.
During the Germany-U.S. game on Monday, a number ofGerman fans outside the stadium were arrested after minor clasheswith police.Alcohol sales were also banned in the vicinity of five largevideo screens erected in the capital to show the games.PORTAGE, Ind.
Three people were killed and five others injuredThursday morning when a Chicago-bound commuter train struck atractor-trailer truck that had been stuck at a crossing.According to investigators, the truck, which was deliveringthree 40,000-pound steel coils, had crossed the commuter tracks asit entered a steel mill in Portage, 30 miles southeast of Chicago.However, a freight train running on tracks parallel to the SouthShore Railroad train had tripped its crossing gates and trapped thetail end of the double-wide truck between the two tracks.While it was stopped at the crossing waiting for the freighttrain to clear, authorities said, the commuter train approached andslammed into the overlapping trailer, dragging it close to 400feet.
The impact launched one of the steel coils into the front carof the train, killing three of the passengers, William McCombs ofLaporte, Ind., Gary Berndt of Michigan City, ind., and Glenn Walkerof Baroda, Mich., an off-duty employee of the railroad.
The fiveother passengers received minor injuries.
The truck driver was notseriously hurt.The two-car train, which originated in Michigan City, Ind., wasthe first of 10 morning trains carrying people to Chicago.
Thecollision occurred at 4:35 a.m., stopping service on the line thatshuttles between South Bend, Ind., and Chicago.According to Dave Eggers, a trooper with the Indiana StatePolice, the driver of the truck, Keith Lintz of Niles, Mich., wascited for several violations.
The most serious of the citations wasan overweight violation, since Lintz did not have the proper permitrequired to carry such a heavy load.Investigators for the National Transportation Safety Board wereon the scene leading the investigation.
Michael Martino, theinvestigator in charge, said they planned to recreate the crashSaturday, by which time they would have a better idea of whathappened.
(Train passengers were also injured in two other collisionsThursday.
In Durham, N.C., an Amtrak train heading for New Yorkwith about 200 on board hit a tractor-trailer at a downtowncrossing, critically injuring the truck driver and slightlyinjuring two in the train crew.
The 18-wheel tractor-trailerwrapped around the front of the locomotive and briefly caught fire.The locomotive derailed, though it remained upright.In Boston, two subway trains collided at one of the city'sbusiest stations during lunch hour.
Transportation officials say atleast 10 people were hurt, but none of the injuries werelife-threatening.
One Green Line train slammed into the back ofanother at the Government Center station, witnesses said.
)In 1993, two South Shore trains collided in Gary, Ind., killingseven and injuring more than 60.
In that accident, federalauthorities said, an engineer had disregarded a signal to stop.WASHINGTON As a congressman and later as the Clintonadministration's chief delegate to the United Nations, BillRichardson displayed a flair for missions that required a sense ofderring-do, like the time he persuaded officials in Pyongyang torelease an American who stole into North Korea to convert all itscitizens to Christianity.Richardson's model as free-form diplomatic troubleshooter hasbeen as much Indiana Jones as Henry Kissinger as he has traveled toodd and sometimes fearsome parts of the world, including Sudan,Iraq, Serbia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Myanmar, in addition toNorth Korea.
On many of those missions he has often been successfulin winning the release of hostages from governments and warlordswhen traditional diplomacy had failed to do so.In choosing Richardson to be his new energy secretary, PresidentClinton has given him an assignment which traditionally carries farless glamour and less opportunity for a high public profile.
But noone in the capital expects Richardson to recede into relativeobscurity.But even as people expect him to be confirmed by the Senate, noone expects that process to occur without its own drama.
As U.N.ambassador, Richardson played an intriguing, perhaps significant,role in the Monica Lewinsky story and he would likely be questionedabout it at any confirmation hearing.Ms.
Lewinsky is the former White House intern who is at thecenter of the current investigation by Whitewater prosecutorKenneth Starr, of Clinton.
Starr is investigating whether thepresident had an intimate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, liedabout it under oath and encouraged her to conceal it as well.When Ms. Lewinsky was leaving a job at the public affairs officeat the Pentagon last fall, Richardson met with her in his officialsuite at the Watergate apartments to discuss a possible job for herthe U.S. mission at the United Nations.
He offered her a job whichshe declined in favor of a corporate post in New York.Investigators are trying to find out if the job offer fromRichardson was part of an inducement for Ms. Lewinsky not to sayanything damaging about the president.William Blaine Richardson was born in Pasadena, Calif., on Nov.15, 1947, and graduated from the Middlesex School and TuftsUniversity, both in Massachusetts.
As a young man, he wasconsidered a major-league pitching prospect.
He and his wife,Barbara, who have no children, live in the Waldorf-Astoriaapartment provided for U.N. ambassadors.In one of his most celebrated missions, Richardson successfullynegotiated the release of three Westerners including a U.S. pilotin the middle of the Sudanese desert in December 1996.He persuaded the rebel leaders to drop their demand for millionsof dollars in exchange for tons of food along with jeeps andradios.As Washington's U.N. ambassador, Richardson compiled whatdiplomats have viewed as an impressive list of achievements,including persuading the new leader of Congo, formerly Zaire, toallow an investigation of human rights abuses and as a principaladvocate of a tough U.S. policy towards Iraq.He recently has been criticized by some diplomats for failing toperceive, during a visit to New Delhi, India's intentions to engagein nuclear testing.In May, Richardson became the first U.S.
Cabinet official tovisit Afghanistan in more than two decades and obtained anagreement from the warring factions to begin peace talks, and hewas Clinton's choice to try to ease the dying leader of Zaire,Mobutu Sese Seko, out of office.Richardson was regarded warmly at the United Nations, especiallyamong the diplomats of the developing world who are often ignoredby U.S. officials, for his backslapping, informal nature and hispolitical skills.
He made much of his part-Hispanic background andliked socializing with delegates.NEW YORK Just when it looked as if the proposed merger betweenthe American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market had won thedissidents over, another critic has popped up.
And this one isbringing the specter of antitrust into the merger.The vote on the deal by American Stock Exchange seat-holders,scheduled for next Thursday, appeared to be in the bag earlier thisweek.
That was when Paul Liang, one of the exchange's largestseat-holders and biggest critics of the deal, sold his 18 seats toa big specialist firm, Spear, Leeds Kellogg.
A vote of no byLiang could have jeopardized the two-thirds majority needed toapprove the deal.But on Thursday, a new critic of the combination emerged.Patrick Healy, president of the Issuer Network in Chevy Chase, Md.,a consulting firm that advises public companies on where theyshould list their company's shares for trading, had supported themerger initially.
But he withdrew his support after Nasdaqofficials refused to address corporate discontent over the stockmarket's decision to increase listing fees by an average of 56percent in January.He now worries that a combination of the two exchanges may lead,down the road, to unfairly high fees for companies that list theirshares for trading on either the Nasdaq or the American StockExchange.
He has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission, theFederal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice to reviewthe merger with this anti-competitive issue in mind.How much a company pays each year to list and trade its stock onan exchange has become more of an issue as the United States' stockand option exchanges consolidate.In addition to the pending American Stock Exchange and Nasdaqmerger, just last week the American Stock Exchange and thePhiladelphia Option Exchange agreed in principle to merge.
Withfewer listing alternatives available to companies, the opportunityto jack up issuer prices increases.Issuer or listing fees typically include a hefty initial chargewhen a company lists its shares, an annual fee and additionalcharges if a company issues new shares of stock.
Exchanges usuallybase their fees on how many shares a company has outstanding.Regardless of a company's size, fees are highest on the New YorkStock Exchange and lowest on the American Stock Exchange.On the Big Board, for instance, a company with 5 million to 6million shares outstanding would pay an annual charge of at least$16,170.
On the American Stock Exchange, it would pay $9,000.
OnNasdaq, it would pay $12,000, up 54 percent from the $7,750 chargedlast year.Although this may seem like pocket change, these fees can be asignificant cost of doing business for the small concerns that havemade Nasdaq their home because they do not meet the Big Board'smore stringent listing requirements or do not want to pay its highfees.And the annual fees come on top of Nasdaq's original listingfees of almost $60,000 for a firm of that size.
Original listingcharges for such a firm would be as much as $88,100 on the BigBoard and $27,500 on the American Stock Exchange.Not surprisingly, the bigger the exchange, the more importantlisting fees are to its overall financial picture.
Last year, forexample, 41 percent of the New York Stock Exchange's revenues camefrom listing fees: $261 million in total.Nasdaq's issuer fees totaled $113 million in 1997, 18 percent ofits revenues.
The American Stock Exchange took in $16 million insuch fees, 8 percent of its total revenues.But companies that list their shares on Nasdaq have experiencedthe heftiest increase in fees.
According to a study that Healyconducted for his clients, Nasdaq's listing fees increased byalmost 500 percent from 1990 through 1997.Only a small portion of the increase can be attributed to morelisting companies: The number of issuers rose only 34 percentduring the period.
Most of the growth in issuer revenues came fromprice increases.Nasdaq said that it had to increase its issuer fees to cover newinformation services including its World Wide Web site and onlineservices developed for issuers and investors.
The fee increasealso went toward investment in technology for Nasdaq's marketsurveillance system.Because its fees remain below those on the New York StockExchange, Nasdaq says its charges are reasonable.
But comparisonswith the Big Board are irrelevant to most of its issuers becausemost do not meet the New York Stock Exchange's listing requirementsand therefore could not list their shares there.Nasdaq sent two letters to its issuing companies about thecoming fee increases.
And as is always the case with such aproposed fee increase, the SEC asked for public comment on it.
Butcompanies were asked only in the Federal Register for comment, andmany remained in the dark.
When companies got their bills fromNasdaq in February, some were surprised by the higher fees.Hardest hit were small companies, with 1 million to 10 millionshares outstanding.
They saw their charges jump 33 percent to 104percent.
Which means that if the American Stock Exchange-Nasdaqmerger goes through, one unintended consequence may be a surge ofcompanies moving their listings to the American Stock Exchange.That is, if the exchange keeps its fees low.WASHINGTON A study of American cities by the Clintonadministration says the strong national economy has left most ofthem in their best financial shape in decades.The largest part of the request comes from the Department ofHousing and Urban Development, which is seeking $1.8 billion in newspending beyond the appropriation of $24 billion it has received ineach of the last five years.While Congress is projecting a budget surplus of as much as $100billion for 1999, it will not be easy for the administration to getadditional money for new programs.
Among other reasons, Republicansin both houses are eager to use some of the surplus to cut taxes.The report, which is to be presented by Cuomo this weekend atthe U.S. Conference of Mayors annual convention in Reno, Nev.,provides ample evidence that the country's economic growth inrecent years has dramatically improved conditions in cities of allsize around the country.Among the major findings are a 10.4 percent increase inemployment in cities over the last five years, and a 34 percentincrease in new low-skilled jobs from 1994 to 1995, compared with a13 percent increase from 1991 to 1994.But those gains pale beside job growth in suburban areas, thereport says, a disparity that triggers a domino effect of adverseconsequences for cities.
As urban problems like crime and poorschools steadily persuade many middle-class residents to leave forthe suburbs, commercial investment follows, draining cities oftheir job base and tax base.The report contends that the people who are hurt most are thelowest-wage earners, who have fewer job opportunities and, often,no practical means of transportation to reach jobs in the suburbs.The report contends that over the next five years, their ranks willincrease by 353,000 as current welfare recipients join the searchfor work.Citing a recent study of 74 urban areas by the conference ofmayors, the administration's report says that employers are likelyto find at least two applicants for the same low-paying job overthe next five years, and some cities, like Cleveland; Newark, N.J.,and Providence, R.I., are projecting 10 or more more.The administration's budget request seeks to aid those peoplewith a holistic economic approach, using urban programs that wouldstimulate job growth, improve public schools and educationalprograms and create 100,000 new vouchers for low-income cityresidents so they can move closer to higher-paying jobs.
The housing department is seeking $400 million for a newCommunity Empowerment Fund, which would be used to leverage $2billion in private-sector loans to create 280,000 jobs.
The department is also requesting $283 milion in newlow-income housing vouchers to make it easier for 50,000 welfarerecipients to find a job.
The Department of Education wants $1.5 billion over five yearsto create Education Opportunity Zones in high poverty areas and$7.3 billion over the same period to hire new teachers to reducethe class size in grades 1 through 3.SAN FRANCISCO As Tiger Woods attempted once again to graspthat greatness that flashed across Augusta National 14 months ago,the result was a peculiar mix Woods's demeanor was consistent,even if his golf was far from it.All was well, though.
Woods seemed well on his way to a solidround and a high rung on the leaderboard.
And perhaps he might havebeen well on his way toward winning his second major, a feat few ingolf thought would require a year-and-thensome, as now is the case,since his epic triumph in the 1997 Masters.Woods reached the ninth green in regulation two and was facedwith a 25-footer for birdie.
But his round was to turn completelyhere as Woods needed four putts to get off the green and an ungodlythree to traverse the final 2 feet.
From that green onward, Woodswould play The Olympic Club in a far-from-great 6 over par.Tiger used his driver on only three holes the first, 11th, and17th but when he pulled his driver out on the 11th, he broughtout more than a few gasps from the crowd, driving the ball 290yards down the fairway.
Yet he could come home only with a par asthe greens mastered Woods this day instead of Woods masteringOlympic, as had been expected by some because he played theLakeside Course many times as an undergraduate at nearby Stanford.Back then, though, Woods could be a carefree college student.Back then, Woods had not yet flashed across the sky with a stunningand overwhelming win at the '97 Masters.
Back then, Woods wascarrying merely the potential of greatness on his shoulders, notthe weight of greatness on demand.But greatness cannot be demanded.
On the 12th hole, a 416-yardpar 4, Woods found the right bunker and could not get up and down.Bogey.
On the next hole, a par 3, Woods three-putted from 24 feetfor another bogey, bogeys and worse being his nemesis in the majorssince the 1997 Masters.
Woods has gone 26 strokes over par on 11holes at various junctures of the 1997 US and British Opens, the'97 PGA, and now the 1998 US Open.The 16th, of course, is made for Tiger, a 609-yard killer thateven Woods needed a 2-iron, 2-iron, and 9-iron to reach inregulation three.
But there was Woods's ball, 24 feet above the cupfor a birdie bid to begin his creep back to competitiveness.
Tiger yet again needed three strokes on the green to find the hole.Woods hit 11 of a possible 14 fairways decent enough, giventhe customary Open rough but he missed five of 18 greens inregulation.
And the putting?
Not good, not at all, Woods needing 33to find the 18 holes.
D on Radke , former president of a Wisconsin nudist club thatholds an annual summer car show, discusses in the latest issue ofEsquire how a nudist avoids sticking to the car seat.
The nonprofit Peaceful Streets is holding a Father's Day GunBake in Washington Square from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in which fourassault rifles will be pounded by blacksmiths into works of art,then placed on doors to be painted by volunteers into a communitymural.
This action-packed event also includes drumming, a favoredFather's Day activity for non-golfers.
American Greetings says that 30 percent of its Father's Daycards are humorous, but only 18 percent of Mother's Day cards crackjokes.
Elsewhere on the trail of national trends, Country Homemagazine notes that the 10 most searched-for items on the InternetAntique Shop Mall are: Depression glass, Roseville pottery,carnival glass, Limoges china, Beanie babies (you knew they wouldsneak in there, didn't you?
), dolls, cookie jars, McCoy pottery,lamps and clocks.
A judge in Sicily has concluded that antiquities bought by Maurice Tempelsman the diamond trader who was Jackie O 'sboyfriend in 1980 were looted from an archaeological dig inSicily.
D on Radke , former president of a Wisconsin nudist club thatholds an annual summer car show, discusses in the latest issue ofEsquire how a nudist avoids sticking to the car seat.
The nonprofit Peaceful Streets is holding a Father's Day GunBake in Washington Square from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday in which fourassault rifles will be pounded by blacksmiths into works of art,then placed on doors to be painted by volunteers into a communitymural.
This action-packed event also includes drumming, a favoredFather's Day activity for non-golfers.
American Greetings says that 30 percent of its Father's Daycards are humorous, but only 18 percent of Mother's Day cards crackjokes.
Elsewhere on the trail of national trends, Country Homemagazine notes that the 10 most searched-for items on the InternetAntique Shop Mall are: Depression glass, Roseville pottery,carnival glass, Limoges china, Beanie babies (you knew they wouldsneak in there, didn't you?
), dolls, cookie jars, McCoy pottery,lamps and clocks.
A judge in Sicily has concluded that antiquities bought by Maurice Tempelsman the diamond trader who was Jackie O 'sboyfriend in 1980 were looted from an archaeological dig inSicily.Joe Carter was standing behind home plate at Baltimore's CamdenYards last month, sermonizing about his bat.
Carter, nearlyreverential, told how it was more durable, how it allowed him towhip through the strike zone faster and how other major-leaguerswill ultimately want one.Carter, bat evangelist as well as a member of the Orioles, atlast persuaded Pat Borders of the Cleveland Indians formerly histeammate in Toronto to take a swing.
Borders swung the bat once,twice, three times and then nodded his acceptance.
Carter cackledwith knowing approval, then shared his wisdom.What is the secret?
Why does Carter, a potential Hall of Famerwho has knocked in at least 100 runs in 11 of his 16 seasons, adorea bat that he did not begin using until last season while with theBlue Jays, a bat he sneaked into at least one game in 1997 beforeit was officially approved by major-league baseball?Carter is the most vocal of the two dozen major-league clientsof Sam Holman, a waggish 53-year-old from Ottawa who responded to abar challenge from a baseball scout two years ago by carving a batfrom rock maple wood, not the northern ash wood from whichvirtually all bats are made.So Holman formed Original Maple Bat Corp. and has devoted thelast two years to making maple bats and trying to gain a slice of amarket dominated by Hillerich Bradsby, a 115-year-old Louisville,Ky., company that provides Louisville Sluggers to almost 70 percentof major-league players.
Trying to break into a sport steeped intradition and superstition, Holman has a daunting task.Still, Holman tells players that maple bats, denser andstronger, can last a full month.
Ash bats last from a day to aweek, rarely survive a month and must be discarded anyway becausethe barrels become dented.
The maple bats are sleeker because theyhave tighter grains, a smoother finish and a thinner barrel,usually measuring 2\ inches instead of 2{.Although thinner barrels can frighten hitters less bat surfacewith which to make contact Holman stressed that bat speed willincrease.
Holman, who calls his products Sam Bats, said that theytraveled through the strike zone faster because they were lighter,and that contact with a ball was made on a harder surface.Holman is one of about 20 smaller manufacturers who provide batsfor players, but he is the only one using maple.
Bill Williams, aspokesman for HB, said the company has experimented with all typesof wood and even made some maple bats for Little Leaguers in theearly 1990s, but has no plans to switch from ash.
Ash, he said, isthe best for duplicating the thin handles and thick barrels mostmajor-leaguers became accustomed to through years of using aluminumbats in Little League, high school and college.Nonetheless, why did it take decades for someone to consistentlyuse maple to make bats?
It is not Kryptonite, after all.Carter, who was batting .266 with nine home runs and 26 runsbatted in going into last night's game, is Holman's most loyalclient on a gradually growing list that includes Toronto's JoseCanseco, Baltimore's Mike Bordick and Houston's Brad Ausmus.
Holmanhas filled orders for Colorado's Larry Walker and Houston's CraigBiggio and Jeff Bagwell, and dozens of other players have sampledthe maple bats but have been hesitant to switch.After Bill MacKenzie, a friend of Holman's who scouts for theColorado Rockies, complained about how many broken bats he had seenin spring training in 1996, Holman took it as a challenge.
Hesearched for stronger wood and wound up with maple, which is sosturdy that it is used to build airplane propellers.
The firstmaple bat was made out of a piece of railing from Holman's home andwas given to an 11-year-old named Adam Healy.
The boy slept with itand homered in his next game.Holman purchased a rare Italian lathe that was being used tomake ax handles, turned his garage into a workshop and begantesting and marketing Sam Bats.Bill Murray, baseball's director of operations, said it does notapprove new bat makers once a season starts because umpires aregiven a list of sanctioned equipment companies and it would bechaotic to continually add names.
Consequently, it took more than ayear for Sam Bats to receive approval.But making a profit is not.
Holman, who answers his owntelephone and eats lunch while his pregnant cat, Marbles, meows inthe former garage, is essentially a one-man company.
Hillerich Bradsby dwarfs the competition by producing almost a million batsper year, which are sold to pro players at $30.50 a bat.
Teams buythe bats, and players who have contracts with HB receive a nominalfee.
Holman has made about 450 bats this year at a cost of $43each, up from 400 last year, but he is $40,000 in debt afterinvesting $100,000.That presents another thorny problem.
Because Holman makes everybat by hand, cutting the wood, shaping it and sanding it, no twobats are exactly alike.
He tries to adhere to the specificmeasurements ordered by each player and was working on Canseco's ona recent weekend, but he cannot duplicate each bat, and that hasirritated some players.Holman hopes to survive, then thrive, and he studies gamesmostly to see who is using Sam Bats.
He would love to persuadeLittle League, high school and college teams to switch fromaluminum to maple.WASHINGTON Indonesia's new president, B.J.
Habibie, hasappointed as a senior military adviser a retired army general whowas ordered by a U.S. court to pay millions of dollars in damagesfor his involvement in a 1991 massacre in which 270 people wereestimated to have been killed.The appointment of the retired officer, Lt. Gen. SintongPanjaitan, could result in early strains in the relationshipbetween the United States and Habibie, who came to office lastmonth with promises of an improvement in Indonesia's human rightsrecord and in its ties with Washington.Panjaitan oversaw troops who carried out the November 1991massacre in East Timor, the former Portuguese colony that wasinvaded by Indonesia in the 1970s and annexed despite internationalprotests.The soldiers opened fire on demonstrators who had gathered at agraveyard for the funeral of a young East Timorese man who had beenkilled by soldiers two weeks earlier.In 1994 Panjaitan was ordered by a U.S. District Court judge inBoston to pay $14 million in damages to the mother of a 20-year-oldNew Zealand man who was among those killed.
The suit was filed inBoston by human rights activists after Panjaitan moved there forstudies at Boston University.The general, who was removed from his military post after themassacre, never appeared in court to answer the charges andreturned home to Indonesia in 1992 to join the staff of Habibie,who was then technology minister.Habibie, the former vice president, became president after theresignation of President Suharto, who was forced from power in apopular uprising against his 32 years of often brutal authoritarianrule in Indonesia, the world's fourth-most-populous nation.Since taking over this spring, Habibie has promised a crackdownon human-rights abuses by the Indonesian military and has hintedthat he may be willing to grant some degree of autonomy to EastTimor.
Last week he freed 12 political prisoners associated withthe independence movement on East Timor.The Boston lawsuit against the general was brought on behalf ofthe mother of Kamal Bamadhaj, a university student from New Zealandwho was traveling through East Timor and was killed by Indonesiansoldiers when he became caught up in the graveyard demonstration.Video of the massacre was smuggled out of Indonesia and showedsoldiers opening fire on unarmed demonstrators without provocation.ATLANTA -- It used to be that the only numbers people routinelychecked for health were the ones on their bathroom scales.But researchers are re-evaluating their recommendations on suchtopics as weight, blood pressure, cholesterol, exercise and diet todetermine what really leads to healthy living.
And after grindingthrough the statistics, they've reached at least one conclusion:Guidelines by the numbers are not guarantees that someone willdodge an early death.Yet, in the past decade, patients have become increasinglyinterested in living life by the numbers.
They want to know whattheir blood pressure or blood sugar rates are.
They weigh theirfood and calculate their body fat.An explosion of new data has resulted in some recent changes inthe benchmarks of good health causing confusion and frustrationfor some.
This month, the National Institutes of Health officiallydeemed many of us still too fat to be in good health.
At the sametime, a new study suggested blood pressure levels of 140/90 longconsidered the target range are still too high, and people shouldbe getting to 120/80.What's behind the changing numbers is a growing sophisticationin preventive health strategies.
And in many cases, what once wasviewed as medical gospel is being cast aside or challenged by newmedical knowledge.
For example:Dietitians are re-evaluating the role of fat in the diet.
Aftera decade of recommending low-fat diets, most dietitians now believefat is critical in maintaining blood sugars.
Instead, attention hasbeen turned toward whether people consume too many carbohydratesand get too little exercise.Most doctors still believe that a normal cholesterol levelshould be below 200, but a growing number of heart doctors andalternative medicine specialists believe the number should be below150.Some exercise experts believe that what matters is not what youweigh on the scale, but how fit you are.
And they are challengingthe movement to get people to lose weight.
It is inactivity, notpounds, that leads to sickness and early death.One reason for the increasing focus on health-related numberguidelines is that more Americans are taking charge of their healthand looking for ways to improve their diets and live healthier,more active lifestyles.Richard and Astrid Jackson of Druid Hills, both in their 60s,think they can have an impact on their health.That belief is also driving changes in the medical marketplace.Managed care, the health trend du jour, is built on the philosophythat the best way to save health care dollars is to keep peoplehealthy through disease prevention.
Offering everything from cancerscreenings at malls to well-baby checkups to reminder cards for eyeexams to diabetics, managed care at its best has pushed preventivecare to the forefront.But as the field and health guidelines change, how reliableare the numbers, graphs and charts we study?
And which guidelinesare the most important to follow?Researchers and physicians from all walks of life andphilosophies tout the value of regular exercise at least 20minutes a day for improved cardiac function and flexibility.And the body mass index a ratio of height and weight is onlyuseful as a general tool for the average population; it does notindicate any kind of health status for those who either are thin,but are inactive or for serious athletes.
Better indicators are thewaist-to-thigh ratio or body fat content measurements, which gaugea person's fat and fitness levels.The American Council on Exercise points out, for example, thatShaquille O'Neal of the Los Angeles Lakers, home-run hitter MarkMcGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals and Detroit Lions running backBarry Sanders would all be deemed overweight or obese by the bodymass index which fails to distinguish between muscle and fat.Experts also say most of the guidelines are merely cutoff pointsdefining the line between someone being healthy and someonestarting to show signs of chronic illness.Individuals, therefore, need to monitor their own health andwork with their doctors to determine their own personal norms interms of cholesterol, weight and other factors.Carol Conley, 77, has exercised all her life.
And although herblood pressure has recently registered higher than normal, she isstill diligent in swimming at the YWCA three times a week and doingat least 20 minutes of stretching each day.For her, it's a regimen that works on a personal level, and it'salso right in line with what the experts advise.Q: How much of the overall conspiracy was mapped out when youstarted and how much has been flying by the seat of your pants?A: It's a combination.
I had a rough idea where we were going,but to tell you the truth, I discover new things all the time toadd in.
By choice, I didn't want to create a bible so that I couldfind my way through the process.
It's like Lewis and Clark.
I knowthe direction I'm going, but I don't quite know what I'm going toencounter on the way.A: It was considered and calculated.
You want to make it a greatmovie experience for anyone who doesn't watch television.
I thinkyou can completely enjoy the movie without knowing anything.Q: Die-hard fans sometimes get turned off when you get reallymurky.
Do you just like to mess with people's minds?A: I do.
I always think you'd be much more irritated if I madeit simplistic than if I made it complex.
It's a risky run.A: I don't know for sure.
I see it going at least seven years(next season will be No.
6), and anything on top of that will begravy.
I'd like to see the TV series become a movie series.
It alldepends on the success of this movie.Q: What will those last episodes have to be like to satisfy thehard-core fans?A: I'm excited about the idea that I'll have a place to go.
WhatI'll end up getting to do is set up the next movie by what I do inthose TV shows.Q: You've tried to keep everything secret, so what's with thehidden track at the end of the CD?
(At the end of the moviesoundtrack, Carter talks for a few minutes about the conspiracy.
)A: It really tells you what you've seen in the series.
Itdoesn't tell you anything that you see in the movie.
I thought itwas an opportunity to give something a little special to people whowere paying attention.A: Sometimes I wonder.
The show has been a miracle in many ways.So many things have gone right that could have gone wrong.
I thinkits timing was perfect.
The advances in science we are conductingright now make it possible.
Imagine trying to do this show withoutcell phones.Q: Do you get a fiendish glee out of all the blind alleys thatfans pursue on the Internet?A:Absolutely.
It's so weird to me to have created something thathas spawned so much speculation, so much talk.
It just blows mymind when I go on the Internet and see people chatting.A: It's best kept a secret.
You write things down, they tend toget stale, like bread.
Ideas should be kept fresh in your head andnever let out until the point you're ready to use them.
If you telltoo many people, it dissipates the energy.
And no one can stealthem if they're in your head.In a landmark sexual harassment case, a Massachusetts man haswon more than $800,000 from the Norton Company, where he claims hewas harassed on the job by another man for 3 1/2 years.The case the first jury verdict on same-sex harassment inMassachusetts comes on the heels of a US Supreme Court ruling inMarch that federal law prohibiting gender bias applies to same-sexharassment.Dottie Wackerman, vice president of communications for Norton,would not comment on details of the case.Wackerman said Norton has filed post-trial motions claiming theevidence did not support the verdict and aiming to reduce thejudgment.
Depending on the outcome of those motions, she said, anappeal may be filed.Eight women and four men in May awarded $843,313 in damages andinterest, plus undetermined legal fees which could put thesettlement close to $1 million.The harassment, he claimed, began with an unwelcome advanceoutside the workplace.
A few days later, Trafecante told him heloved him and wanted to have sex with him, according to courtpapers.The harassment increased with time.
Trafecante allegedly beganfollowing him into the men's room, made sexual gestures in thecompany gym, and once grabbed his genitals, Belanger claimed.After Trafecante was suspended in 1994, Belanger was admitted tothe psychiatric ward at Memorial Hospital in Worcester for a week,and did not return to work that summer.Fate intervenes when the neighboring Huns invade.
The emperor(Pat Morita) decrees that every family must send one male to thecountry's defense.
Mulan's father, a war hero, is willing buthardly able.
He's elderly and infirm.
So she pulls a NationalVelvet cuts her hair, dresses like a guy and reports for duty.But now she's in double jeopardy.
Not only could she be killed,but if her disguise is discovered, the law mandates that she beexecuted by her commanding officer, who just happens to be aninviting young hunk named Shang (B.D.
Wong/Donny Osmond).Good thing her ancestral spirits have sent along someprotection.
Well, not protection so much as a disgraced little reddragon named Mushu (Eddie Murphy), trying to prove himself worthyof said spirits.Writer-director-star Christopher Scott Cherot's feature debutmanages to subvert those expectations, but for the most part is lowon originality.
It mainly proves that African-American filmmakersare just as proficient at aimless romantic navel-gazing as theirwhite colleagues.A stylish name-dropper, Havilland mentions parties with EddieMurphy and Quentin Tarantino.
She's just broken up with a risingpop musician (Hill Harper) who makes other women swoon.Lee's life, in contrast, is far from glam.
A writer whose latestbook deal has fallen through, he lives in friends' apartments andscrapes by as a teacher's assistant at New York University.Down in D.C., in a house that proves to be the movie'sclaustrophobic primary location, we meet Hav's arch friend Caroline(Tammi Katherine Jones) and sister Leigh (Robbine Lee).Cherot is a likable performer, but he doesn't have the moviestar wattage or sly charm his role needs.
Maxwell can't do muchwith her character, written as a chilly and sour woman.Don't expect any mention of Atlanta or any of the Georgiacharacters in this excerpt, however.
They won't appear untilOctober, when the next two chapters are published in Rolling Stoneand Men's Journal.Conrad, a young father with two children, is working the$14-an-hour job in hopes of buying a condo.
But he soon learns hisfuture at Croker Global Foods Warehouse is as precarious as thefooting on the ice-patched floor.As Croker's financial woes intensify, Atlanta is thrust into aracial crisis when Fareek Fanon, a young man who scratched his wayout of the slums to become a star college football player, isaccused of raping an Atlanta blue blood's daughter.At this point in his life, however, Wilde (Stephen Frye) isstill very much in the closet even to himself.
What many peopleprobably don't know, and what this movie manages to convey in itsCliffs Notes way, is that he tried Victorian conformity.
He marriesand has two children.
But one night while his wife (Jennifer Ehle)is upstairs in the nursery, a houseguest (Michael Sheen) introducesOscar to his true sexual inclination.Disaster strikes when Oscar falls hard for handsome, heartlessLord Alfred Douglas (Jude Law), a petulant brat with a title and atyrannical father, the Marquess of Queensberry (Tom Wilkinson).Oscar's toxic infatuation leads to his becoming a pawn in apoisonous struggle between a nasty son and a nastier father.
Theresult?
Victorian England's trial of the century.WASHINGTON Millions of people have left the welfare rollssince Congress overhauled the federal program two years ago, butwhat happened to them has been a puzzle for policy-makers.
Now, themost comprehensive study of the new system says more and more aregoing to work.The General Accounting Office, a nonpartisan arm of Congress,said Thursday that there had been sharp increases in the proportionof welfare recipients being placed in jobs.The findings address one of the biggest questions about socialwelfare policy in America.
Officials have expressed many opinions,but until now had only sketchy, incomplete information about whathappened to the people leaving welfare.Since President Clinton took office, the number of people onwelfare has fallen 37 percent, to 8.9 million in March 1998 from14.1 million in January 1993.
The number has dropped 27 percentsince August 1996, when Clinton signed a bill ending the federalguarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children.Texas had a slight decline in the proportion of welfarerecipients who found jobs.
Data from Connecticut, while not exactlycomparable, showed a substantial increase in the number of familiesleaving welfare because of increased earnings.The General Accounting Office reported that 17 percent ofMaryland's welfare recipients were placed in jobs in 1997, up from4 percent in 1995.
In Louisiana, the proportion rose to 17 percent,from 6 percent, while in California it rose to 19 percent from 9percent.But Levin said that the progress of the last two years would bejeopardized if House Republicans cut spending on programs for poorpeople, as required under the budget blueprint approved by theHouse on June 5.Authors of the report were quick to point out that someimportant questions remained unanswered.
The report does not showthe effects of the 1996 law on the well-being of children.
It doesnot measure the extent of hunger or homelessness among peopleremoved from the welfare rolls.
Nor does it show what will happenif the economy, now booming, turns sour.
Forty-two states have liberalized their rules on earned incomeso that welfare recipients can keep more of their monthly cashassistance payments after they begin working.
Nearly all stateshave increased their limits on the value of automobiles and otherassets that people can own while receiving public assistance.
The proportion of adult welfare recipients who are told topursue education and job training has declined in the last threeyears.
Instead, people are routinely told to get jobs as soon asthey apply for welfare.
Nineteen states have adopted stricter time limits on welfarethan the five-year limit set by the 1996 federal law.
But most ofthese states make exceptions in some cases.In Connecticut, the General Accounting Office found that 2,667families had reached the 21-month time limit by December 1997.
Inthis group, 1,666 families lost welfare benefits, but the other1,001 families, representing more than one-third of the total, gotextensions allowing them to continue receiving cash assistance.More than half of the people removed from the rolls 972 of the1,666 families did not request an extension.
Almost all thepeople who unsuccessfully sought a continuation of their welfarebenefits had earnings or other household income.Set in 1920s Rotterdam, director Mike van Diem's debut featuremanages an adroit mixture of passion and repression, destiny andcharacter study.
It's not exactly a lighthearted romp, and itleaves a strong impression as well as a sense of a filmmaker withsomething more on his mind than merchandise tie-ins.The picture opens with a tense confrontation between anemotional young man named Jacob Willem Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huet)and a powerful older man, Dreverhaven (Jan Decleir).
What'simmediately clear is that there's bad blood between them.Cut to the police station.
Dreverhaven, a heartless andmuch-feared bailiff who prides himself on his lack of compassionfor the poor, has been murdered.
Katadreuffe is the prime suspect.We soon learn, via flashbacks framed by the policeinterrogation, that there was more than bad blood between the two:There was shared blood.
Katadreuffe is Dreverhaven's illegitimateson, the issue of a near-rape committed against his stone-facedhousekeeper, Joba (Betty Schuurman).What ensues, for the most part, are Katadreuffe's bittermemories of the relentless war waged between father and son.
Atevery turn, the son seems somehow thwarted by his father.
Are thesecruelties meant to be character-revealing (of the father) orcharacter-building (for the son)?
Perhaps a bit of both.Van Diem somewhat overdoes the Oedipal sturm und drang thatcolors their bitter conflict.
However, so much happens so quicklythat you barely have time to worry about it.
Van Huet is determinedand sympathetic as the abandoned son driven to distraction (andmurder?)
by his formidable father's notions of tough love.
Decleiris equally forceful in a more one-dimensional role.That's the way creator Chris Carter likes it.
His movie is moreof the same.
It's a chimeric beast, fusing Nixon-era conspiracyparanoia with a millennial dread of biological warfare, domesticterrorism and little green men from outer space.
Oh, and there's asexy lead couple to keep our eyes soothed when the plot gets tooshaggy.As FBI agents Mulder and Scully, David Duchovny and GillianAnderson take a smooth step up from television to the big screen.The script tweaks their patented deadpan style without veering intocamp.
As for those Internet rumors of romance, the movie handlesthe characters' celebrated sexual tension with a scene that's theequivalent of a knowing wink.You may wonder about logistics, for instance.
How does Mulderget so easily from D.C. to Antarctica when his every move is beingwatched?
You may also marvel at his knack for always choosing theright direction during a chase and his luck at literally stumblinginto a secret entrance to a vast military site.The film may seem too familiar to series fans, too confusing tonewcomers.
A colleague who doesn't watch the show followed the plotOK.
But she was bothered that Mulder and Scully acted so surprisedby the conspiracy and alien elements.
Haven't they beeninvestigating these things for five years?
While she had a finetime watching, nothing about the movie made her eager to tune intothe series.Fans may get a headache from trying to match the film'ssemi-explanation of things with the hints and snippets the serieshas dropped.
The movie does not tie up a lot of loose ends.
Afterall, the series is committed for another two years; creator Carterisn't ready to knock down his own house of cards.FBI Special Agent Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) Brilliant butdarkly obsessed agent who believes his sister, Samantha, wasabducted by aliens as a child.
On his quest, he is uncoveringpieces of a far-reaching conspiracy involving an alien attempt tocolonize Earth and powerful men who are helping the aliens.FBI Special Agent Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) Mulder'spartner, who usually plays a scientific and rational role to hisintuitive, seat-of-the-pants style.FBI Assistant Director Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) Mulderand Scully's boss, he's mainly a benevolent protector who looks outfor them, but sometimes tries to rein them in.Cigarette-Smoking Man (William B. Davis) Shadowy unnamedfigure who's somehow a key.
Works for the Syndicate (see below) butmay have his own agenda.The X-Files Secret FBI files on cases involving unexplainedphenomena (X unexplained).
On the series, these can involve allsorts of spooky stuff, including vampires, werewolves, telekinesis,etc.
The important ones are about aliens and are part of the coremythology of the series.The aliens There are believed to be at least two kinds, maybemore.
The bad aliens are attempting to colonize and enslave Earthand use their life force, a black, oily substance, to take overhumans.
They have been here for thousands of years, although it'snot clear yet what is taking so long.
Some good aliens, who areshape-shifters and can take human form, may be fighting the badaliens, but they are involved in the TV series, not the movie.http://www.fightthefuture.com The movie's official Web site.It doesn't offer nearly as much information as the unofficialsites, but you can download the movie trailer if you have a fastmodem and plenty of time.WALDO, Fla. Firefighting teams labored through yet another dayof relentless heat and roaring flames, and somehow managed to avertmajor damage to homes and businesses as the Florida wildfire crisiscontinued Thursday.Flames bedeviled areas of Jacksonville's west side and flared upas far south as Brevard County, near Kennedy Space Center.
Firesalso continued raging in Charlton County, Ga., just north of thestate line, where some 9,000 acres of timberland have burned nearthe town of St. George.Weather forecasters offered little hope of improved conditions,predicting that rain would come only in quick, scattered showersfor the next few days.In the rural town of Waldo, about 15 miles northeast ofGainesville, city officials Thursday maintained the evacuationordered Wednesday afternoon when flames crept to within 20 feet ofseveral homes.Firefighters were helped a little bit Thursday because windsstayed relatively calm.
Earlier in the week, brisk westerly breezesfanned the flames, making conditions much more tricky anddangerous.
There also were scattered thunderstorms in the area lateThursday.Although most of the flames have been concentrated in sparselypopulated rural areas, the fires have sent a thick cloud of hazysmoke over large portions of North and Central Florida.
Healthofficials are warning people with respiratory problems to remainindoors with their air conditioners running.While most of the fires are at least 20 to 25 miles inland fromthe state's Atlantic beaches, the smoke extended to within a fewmiles of the ocean in some spots.
Afternoon sea breezes helped pushthe smoke back inland.Tourism officials in Jacksonville reported a few concerned callsfrom people planning to come to their area on vacation.
The callerswere assured that the beaches and golf courses have not beenaffected by the fires, said Kitty Ratcliffe, president of theJacksonville and the Beaches Convention and Visitors Bureau.The fires have burned across Florida since Memorial Day,consuming more than 40,000 acres, injuring 13 firefighters andkilling one person.
Nearly 80 homes have burned or sustaineddamage.
Most parts of the state have received no significantrainfall since March.And the French national soccer team stood nearby, under thestars on a beautiful Paris night Thursday, indeed looking like ateam ready to march under the arc next month triumphantly holdingthe World Cup trophy.On the way to pounding out the most one-sided victory of thetournament thus far, much to the delight of 80,000 adoring,flag-waving, anthem-singing fans who made for an unforgettablescene at Stade de France, the French were close to perfect.The victory was surprisingly one-sided considering the expectedstrength of the Saudi team.
There were spectacular plays thatincluded long, perfectly placed passes, crisp midfield moves bysuperstar Zinedine Zidane and a beautiful back-heel pass from YouriDjorkaeff to Bixente Lizarazu for France's final goal.The French took a whopping 16 shots in the game, seven of themon target and four hitting the net.But, alas, Zidane was one who seemed to get too caught up in theemotion in the 70th minute.
And Zidane's grave mistake might be theonly reason France today cannot be talked about in the same breathas Brazil, Germany and Italy, who have had similarly overwhelmingefforts in this tournament.Zidane was red-carded by referee Arturo Brizio of Mexico afteran obvious hard tackle from behind.
Earlier in the day, FIFApresident Sepp Blatter and France '98 president Michel Platiniscolded referees for not sufficiently enforcing thetackle-from-behind rule.Referees listened.
In the South Africa-Denmark game earlier inthe day, a nearly unheard-of three red cards were issued.
And earlyin France's easy victory, Saudi Arabia's Mohammed Al-Khilaiwi wasissued a red.Some of those calls might have been questionable under someofficials' interpretations.
But Zidane, who was playing superblywell to the 70th minute, did not argue.The severe foul not only caused France's best player to beejected from the game, but by rule Zidane will be ineligible forthe next two games the second of which will be a round-of-16elimination game.Still, France can only feel good about Thursday's effort.
It isguaranteed of advancing, and the offense and defense could not havelooked better, after a similarly strong 3-0 victory over SouthAfrica in France's opener.Thierry Henry scored France's first goal on a nice feed fromZidane in just the ninth minute, then young David Trezeguet, 20,added a nice rip into the net in the 68th minute.Henry added his third goal of the tournament in the 77th minute,and Lizarazu finished things off after the snazzy pass fromDjorkaeff.But it's no wonder that the aptly named Guppy is soon hooked.He's got all the comforts of home plus regular sex and some verynice gifts.
Things get more complicated, however, when Joycedemands her share of the action.
Their not-quite menage a troisbecomes a fertile breeding ground for sexual tension, blackmail,jealousy and worse.In one of the more disturbing film introductions in a while, wemeet 5-year-old Danny shortly before he plunges his hands into apregnant neighbor's womb(Blethyn plays the mom).
That's because she's gone into laborunexpectedly, and it's up to him to disentangle the baby from theumbilical cord.The baby is a girl, christened Anna.
And Danny swears he'llsomeday marry her.
Jump ahead 20 years.
Danny is now played by Law,Anna by a lovely but gratingly shrill actress named Gretchen Mol.Though she's engaged to a rich guy (Jon Tenney), Danny, backfrom living abroad for two decades, falls for Anna all over again.And angles to win her back.Blethyn is wasted as an exuberant life force saddled with one ofthose obscure terminal diseases you only get in movies.
Law doeshis best to hold onto his dignity in an underwritten, uninterestingrole.But you can't help but feel some contact humiliation when theactors have to mouth Peters' empty homilies about love and fate.The movie is an embarrassment of twitches.The testimony by the lawyer, Francis Carter, has been soughtfrom the outset of the inquiry by the independent counsel, KennethStarr.
Carter helped prepare a document on Ms. Lewinsky's behalf inthe Paula Jones lawsuit, in which Ms. Lewinsky denied under oaththat she had had a sexual relationship with Clinton.Ms.
Lewinsky was referred to Carter by Vernon Jordan, a closefriend of the president.
Jordan has said that he took Ms. Lewinskyto see Carter at about the time he was helping to arrange a job forher and while she faced a subpoena in the sexual harassment lawsuitbrought by Mrs. Jones against Clinton.
The subpoena ordered her toprovide testimony about her relationship with the president.Emerging after a full day before the grand jury, Carter made nostatement and declined to answer reporters' questions.
His lawyer,Charles Ogletree, said that some questions were posed aboutCarter's relationship with Jordan, but he declined to providedetails of the testimony or any other questions that his client hadbeen asked.Both Carter and Ms. Lewinsky had argued that his conversationswith Ms. Lewinsky were protected by the lawyer-client privilege.But a federal judge ruled that prosecutors had presented evidencethat the privilege was not applicable because Ms. Lewinsky mighthave used her lawyer to violate federal law, according to lawyerswho have seen the judge's ruling.No evidence has surfaced to indicate that Carter did anythingimproper in helping Ms. Lewinsky to prepare her affidavit.But in immunity talks with prosecutors, Ms. Lewinsky'ssubsequent lawyers had proposed as part of secret settlementdiscussions that she would be willing to testify that she did havesex with Clinton, according to lawyers involved in those talks.Also on Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said she had notdecided whether to open an inquiry following accusations in a newmagazine, Brill's Content, that Starr has made improper disclosuresto reporters about his investigation.
Starr has denied thoseaccusations.
Ms. Reno said she had referred the matter to theDepartment's Office of Professional Responsibility.But Gary Stevens put off plans to ride in Europe this monthbecause the dates conflicted with tonight's NTRA All-StarChampionship at Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie.He describes last year's event as one of his greatest thrills inracing, eclipsed only by his first Kentucky Derby victory in 1988with filly Winning Colors, and by his Triple Crown near-miss with1997's Silver Charm.The four-race competition has proved so popular with the publicand the participants, it has become a national fixture in only itssecond season.
The National Thoroughbred Racing Association, thesport's new marketing arm, is sponsoring this year's renewal andhas brought aboard ESPN2 for a live 9-10 p.m. CDT telecast.Stevens, last year's winner, will return to defend his titleagainst fellow Hall of Famers Jerry Bailey, Pat Day, EddieDelahoussaye, Sandy Hawley, Chris McCarron and Laffit Pincay Jr.Rounding out the field are Kent Desormeaux, Julie Krone, ShaneSellers, Mike Smith and Lone Star leading rider Marlon St. Julien.Twice in this decade, nine of the All-Star jockeys shared astarting gate.
All except Krone, Hawley and St. Julien rode in the1994 Kentucky Derby, won by McCarron aboard Go for Gin.
And allexcept Pincay, Hawley and St. Julien were in the 1995 Derby, whichwent to Stevens on Thunder Gulch.But in those major races, the emphasis was more on horses thanjockeys, as it should be.Tonight, the jockeys will be in the spotlight and the horsesthey ride will receive little attention, surprisingly.
In fact,when Lone Star racecaller John Dooley describes the action, he willagain call the names of the riders rather than the horses.A total of $100,000 in prize money will be distributed, of which$25,000 goes to the winning jockey and a guaranteed $5,000 to eachrider regardless of finish.
Additionally, 1 percent of the totalnationwide betting on the four races will be donated to thedisabled riders' fund administered by the Jockey's Guild.Because so much depends on the luck of the draw, jockeys regardthe event as more of a showcase than a true championship.The latter could describe Stevens' plight tonight.
He benefitedfrom a good draw last year, but this time his best mount is DreadMe Not, the 5-to-1 third favorite in the second race.
His otherthree mounts are all held at 10-to-1 or higher in the program.On the other hand, All-Star newcomer Sandy Hawley, who willretire next month, might have received a going-away present in thedraw.
He picked up Little Guy, a solid second-race favorite, andalso has a chance to win or pick up runner-up points withconsistent First Gold in the fourth race.Jockeys get 12 points for a victory, six points for second, fourfor third and three for fourth.Much of this is conjecture, of course, but legendary 51-year-oldPincay appears to have gotten the worst of the draw for a secondconsecutive year.Pincay didn't score a point last year.
And unless he can pull arabbit out of his hat with Pops' Po Boy from the unappealing No.
12post position in the 1 1/16-mile second race, he might not scoretonight, either.Whatever happens, though, Pincay and the other All-Star riderssaid the experience will be an enjoyable and rewarding one.Here is the CoxNet weekend budget for the weekend of June 20-22.This budget will be updated every afternoon through theweek.Questions about stories from Cox newspapers on this budgetshould be directed to CoxNet, the Cox News Service, in Atlanta at800-950-3739 or 404-526-5456.CHINA-TRAVEL BEIJING If you know China, don't bother readingthis.
You are already convinced that from megalopolis tomist-shrouded mountaintop, China is an engaging place.
This iswritten for the couple of hundred million other Americans who maylove to knock about in bizarre places but haven't yet made it tothe Middle Kingdom.
You'll find that China offers spectaculartravel riveting vistas, exotic cultures embracing thousands ofyears, enticing food on almost every corner of every city.
If thenews coverage surrounding President Clinton's trip to China June25-July 3 intrigues you whether it's an aged peasant's creasedsmile or the serenity of a Guilin lagoon that sinks the hook inyour wanderlust make a plan and go for it.
In the three monthswe've been living and working in China, we've managed a sampling ofsome not-to-miss places.
China is more tourist-friendly than ever.
(Kunstel/Albright, Cox News Service).With CHINA-TRAVEL-SIDE BEIJING This is the city central toyour China trip.
From the chaotic alleys called hutongs to thegrace of the Forbidden City built for the emperor and hisentourage, China's capital can keep you happily occupied for fivedays.
After that, it gets to be work.
An aimless stroll or floatacross the lake in Beihai Park will put you in the company ofChinese relaxing away an afternoon.
Or try hunting down the NiujieMosque, where tranquil gardens date back to the 15th Century, andthe nearby Fayuansi Buddhist temple to see an ancient spiritualdimension of modern Chinese life.
Here are some recommendationsspecific to Beijing touring.
(Albright/Kunstel, Cox News Service).CLINTON-TRIP When he visits China later this month, virtuallyeverything President Clinton does every step he takes, everyplace he goes, every bite he eats - will have been choreographedweeks in advance by a horde of advance men and women who will havescheduled every second of his trip.
After spending hours studyingvideotapes of the routes Clinton will take, Secret Service agentswill have ensured that manhole covers are sealed and air ductsblocked to prevent potential assassins from planting bombs.
Hisarmor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead.
Hotels will havebeen comandeered for the president and his entourage.
Detailedbriefing books will have been prepared for him, providingclassified information on the ranking officials with whom he willmeet.
Phone banks will have been put in place for the travelingWhite House press.
Sophisticated electronics gear will have beeninstalled so the media can beam images back to the United States.In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked around theclock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to make surethe whole thing goes off without a hitch.
Bob recently representedthe print press corps on a trip to China with about 40 White Houseadvance people responsible for putting the trip together.
Thiswould be a behind-the-scenes look at how a WH trip is staged.
(Deans, Cox News Service).BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON What's ahead for a House-passed billthat would force people who declare bankruptcy to pay back more oftheir debts, if they can.
(Harlan, Cox News Service).MICROSOFT-CULTURE REDMOND, Wash. Microsoft has brought a newcorporate style to the corridors of corporate America.
It letslow-ranking employees help shape corporate policy, but takes ahard-nosed stance against corporate or government influence.
Avisit to Microsoft's campus to see how this culture has helpedproduced not only the world's most popular software whose latestversion ships Thursday, June 25 but also a bitter antitrustbattle.
(Glass, Cox News Service).FIRES The wildfires that that terrorized north Florida thisweek are now moving across the swamp into Georgia.
We look at theupheaval and the danger for embattled residents and firefighters.
(MWilliams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).OPENLIVES Twenty-four hour video cameras monitor Central Park.At some day care centers, parents now look in via the Internet tocheck on how their children are being treated.
Electronic databasestrack the movies you rent.
Automated gas pumps record where youfill your tank.
Your boss may be reading your E-Mail, or countingthe keystrokes you type.
Don't like someone looking over yourshoulder?
Better get used to it.
Author, futurist and physicistDavid Brin says we're hurtling headlong into an era when everyone'slife will soon be an open book.
Welcome to the Transparent Society.
(Toner, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).WINDOWS Windows 98 finally will go on shelves June 25(actually sooner as Microsoft rushes to get it out there before theJ-Department takes further action.
We take a look at the commercialrelease.
In the past we've reviewed test copies, but this is thereal package that users will get.
(Husted, AtlantaJournal-Constitution)TECBUD To go with Windows 98 centerpiece, we look at ways toget the home PC ready for the new product.
How much more RAM do youneed?
How about a new hard disk?
Do you need a new video card?
((Husted, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)At the same time, his wife, Teresa, was recovering fromopen-heart surgery.
The bills began mounting, and still are.
Harry,69, has lost his voice and has to scribble what he wants to say ona notepad.That chance comes from Habitat for Humanity, which is buildinglow-cost homes for the Russells and 99 other families this week.About 6,000 volunteers have been working on the Jimmy Carter WorkProject, which is supposed to wrap things up Friday.Thursday was the fourth day of construction on the sites inHouston's Second and Fifth Wards, and several volunteers wereexcited at the progress being made.Another problem encountered by volunteers was loss of work timeMonday due to excessive morning heat and evening thunderstorms.Shirl said approximately four hours per house, or 400 hours, ofwork was lost.All 100 homes are expected to be completed Friday, afterplumbers and electricians complete their work and volunteerslandscape the lots and finish hanging doors.
Starting Saturday andcontinuing into next week, volunteers and Habitat staff memberswill inspect the houses to make sure all is ready for move-in day,June 27.For most of those involved, Friday will be the last day of workon the project.
Houses will be dedicated, and homeowners will get apeek at what will be their new place to live.NEW YORK Long viewed as one of the world's most attractivetargets for terrorists, New York City has quietly undertaken anambitious effort to counter attacks carried out with deadlychemicals or germs, according to city officials.The city is buying germ detectors, working out deals withregional hospitals for emergency care, striking unusual accordswith drug companies to make medicines quickly in an emergency andtaking steps to stockpile medications, officials say.Since September, about 4,000 city police officers andfirefighters have undergone training in reacting to germ orchemical attacks.
And next week, about 1,000 doctors in New Yorkare to be trained by federal experts.Emergency planners face bewildering problems in preparing todeal with germ attacks, the foremost being how to tell if suddenoutbreaks of illness are natural or purposeful.
Malicious strikesare hard to detect rapidly since deadly microbes might incubate inhuman bodies for hours, days, weeks or even months before causingwidespread havoc.Dealing with waves of sick or dying victims is a planner'snightmare, as is cleaning up contaminated areas and buildings.
Thespores of anthrax, one of the most common biological warfareagents, can live for centuries.Two months ago, city officials began monitoring patterns ofemergency hospitalization so that they can more swiftly determineif unconventional weapons are used to attack New York.
MayorRudolph Giuliani, officials say, has asked to be personallyinformed of any suspicious patterns of illness.Experts agree that skillful terrorists in theory could injure orkill thousands, if not millions, of people, but disagree on theexact dimensions of the threat.
Too little is known of that shadowyunderworld, they say.Federal and local officials have become increasingly worried inrecent years about the possibility of germ and chemical attacks.Nationally, the worries stem from American intelligence reportsabout terrorists planning attacks and such incidents as a religiouscult's assaults on Tokyo with nerve gas and germs.Locally, the danger from terrorists was driven home in 1993,when a terrorist bomb planted by Islamic militants exploded underthe World Trade Center, killing six people and injuring 1,000.Congress has provided about $100 million to support the trainingof local officials nationwide to cope with unconventional terroristattacks.
But the Pentagon said only 27 of the 120 cities in thatprogram had received assistance so far.
And many have yet toreceive equipment.In interviews, New York City officials said they were tornbetween reassuring the public by revealing the defensivepreparations and panicking people with doomsday scenarios that, inrecent attack studies and simulations, have easily overwhelmed thecity's existing defenses.A sizable part of the $17 million that New York has devoted toemergency preparations has been spent on dealing withunconventional threats from terrorists.
Five of the 50 people inthe city's Office of Emergency Management work full time on theproblem, officials said.City officials said Giuliani has been a driving force behind NewYork's heightened preparations.
The officials said the city'splanned $15 million crisis control center was described by theseofficials as a part of the city's emerging defenses.The city plans to have the ventilation system of the crisismanagement center near the World Trade Center adopt a defensivestrategy known as positive pressure, experts say.
This precautionkeeps a gentle breeze blowing outward whenever a door or window isopened, automatically helping to keep out dangerous germs orchemicals.The city's defenses are being organized by the Office ofEmergency Management.
Hauer is also a member of a small group ofscientists and public health officials who have been advisingPresident Clinton on germ warfare and civil defense.Until now, Hauer and other local officials have declined to bespecific about the city's preparations.
Some of the steps beingtaken and their motivation were outlined Tuesday by William Nagle,a deputy director of the Office of Emergency Planning, at aconference in Washington, which was sponsored by the PotomacInstitute for Policy Studies.The 4,000 members of the city's police and fire units who haveundergone military instruction of a day or more in how to deal withgerm and chemical attacks, he said, have been taught to fight theirinstincts in such an emergency.Hauer, the office's director, said the city had spent more than$1 million to buy two mobile emergency trailers filled withcontainment vessels of different sizes that can isolate dangerousgerms or chemicals, as well as equipment to respond to an attack.It has bought several hundred portable detectors to helpidentify the exact nature of an infectious strike within as littleas 10 minutes.
One type is as small as a matchbook; the other,known as an immunoassay, is a boxy gadget that uses an antibody todetect the presence of a dangerous germ.
New York is the first cityto acquire the latter, Hauer said.The federal government is sponsoring five meetings in which NewYork and other officials play out what would happen if the citywere attacked with biological weapons.
From these exercises,federal officials plan to glean lessons which are meant to beapplied nationwide, making New York a model.In the first of these meetings last April, more than 50scientists, government officials and state and local emergencypreparedness teams met in secret on the outskirts of WashingtonD.C.They were confronted with a chilling scenario: More than athousand people in a 15-story office building in mid-town Manhattanwere attacked by a germ disseminated through the unfiltered airducts.According to the script, the spray contained tularemia, a highlyinfectious germ that causes chills, fever, muscle aches, fatigue,pneumonia-like symptoms and can be fatal.
The germs spread quicklythroughout the building, whose windows were sealed, as they are inso many modern buildings.
Within 15 minutes, virtually the entirebuilding was infected.In the war game, officials said, by the time doctors diagnosedthe mysterious illness as tularemia and began prescribing properantibiotics, the epidemic had run its course.
Because thehypothetical terrorist had chosen a germ that causes a disease witha 35 percent mortality rate, only a third of the 1,080 people whofell ill died.WASHINGTON Ten days after the Food and Drug Administrationtook the heart medication, Posicor, off the market, a new warninghas been issued about the drug: A team of doctors in Oregon hasreported that four patients who stopped taking Posicor went intoshock after switching to other drugs, and one of them has died as aresult.Each of the four cases occurred before Posicor's withdrawal, andthe drug's manufacturer, Roche Laboratories of Nutley, N.J., didnot learn of them until last week.
The company has since cautioneddoctors to wait seven days before giving certain drugs calciumchannel blockers and beta-blockers to patients who havediscontinued Posicor.Posicor, which treats high blood pressure and the chest painsknown as angina, was pulled off pharmacy shelves in 38 countries onJune 8 because it causes toxic and, in some cases, lethalinteractions with 26 other drugs.
It was being taken by 400,000people around the world, 200,000 of them in the United States.At the time it was withdrawn, the drug agency and Rocheinstructed patients not to stop taking Posicor, but to consulttheir doctors about alternative therapies.In an interview Thursday, however, Horowitz said Posicor remainsin the bloodstream for so long that it can cause toxic druginteractions even in patients who have stopped taking it.The four patients Horowitz identified ranged in age from 55 to79.
In each case, their doctors had stopped prescribing Posicorbecause the drug was not working well.
Each patient suffered shock,in which the blood pressure drops to dangerous levels, or otherserious side effects within 12 hours of taking the new drugs.
Threesurvived after intensive treatment in hospital emergency rooms andintensive care units; the 79-year-old, a woman, died.Horowitz notified the FDA and had submitted an article to theJournal of the American Medical Association when Posicor waswithdrawn from the market.
Four days later, on June 12, Rochemailed a warning to doctors.WASHINGTON He is the energizer envoy, a nonstop negotiator whocan outflank and outflatter, outbluff and outbully all the otherplayers in the room.Now Richard Holbrooke is back full time as the chiefrepresentative at the United Nations, a job that brings with itcabinet rank and a seat on the National Security Council.Holbrooke, who negotiated the Bosnia peace agreement in 1995 andhas carried out diplomatic peacemaking missions to Cyprus andKosovo province in Serbia since then, was effusively praisedThursday by President Clinton.Holbrooke may have brought a fragile peace to Bosnia, but hisdetractors point out that a goal of U.S. policy the creation of aviable and united Bosnian state remains unfulfilled.
Hundreds ofthousands of refugees and displaced persons have not returned home,and Bosnia's Croats, Muslims and Serbs refuse to be stitched into aunified republic.To move the Bosnian Serbs toward an armistice, but to avoidhaving to negotiate with them directly, Holbrooke persuaded SerbianPresident Slobodan Milosevic to act as their negotiator andrepresentative.This dependence on Milosevic to deliver the Bosnian Serbs openedHolbrooke to intense criticism that he gave away too much to theman who inspired the Bosnian war, a man whom many believe shouldhave been indicted as a war criminal, a man whose forces are todayconducting a violent campaign against ethnic Albanian rebels inKosovo.In accepting the United Nations job his third stint ingovernment Holbrooke choked back tears as he described a lifelonglove for the United Nations that was instilled in him as an8-year-old child visiting the United Nations with his parents.Holbrooke, who has been a vice chairman of the investmentbanking firm Credit Suisse First Boston for more than two years,was a front-runner for the job of secretary of state in the secondClinton term.
He even interviewed for the post with Clinton, beforethe president decided on Madeleine Albright.That job was given to Bill Richardson, who was nominated to besecretary of energy Thursday.
This time around, Holbrooke wasoffered and immediately accepted the job.Holbrooke's style has been described as both exceedinglycharming and brutally tough.
He survives on only a few hours ofsleep a night, can carry on two or three telephone conversationsand monitor television at the same time.Richard Charles Albert Holbrooke was born on April 24, 1941, inNew York City, the elder of two sons of Dan Holbrooke, a doctor,and Trudi Moos, the daughter of a leather exporter in Germany.
Bothhis parents, who were Jewish, fled the Nazis in the 1930s.Holbrooke's father changed his name to Holbrooke when he arrivedin the United States.
Holbrooke's mother took her son to Quakermeetings on Sundays.He attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale, N.Y., where hisclosest friend was David Rusk, the son of Dean Rusk, the secretaryof state in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations.He joined the Foreign Service in 1962 after graduating fromBrown University, and was sent to Vietnam.In May 1968 he was sent to Paris as a junior member of thedelegation led by W. Averell Harriman to embark on his firstnegotiations with the Vietcong.Four years later he left government to become editor of ForeignPolicy Quarterly.
After President Jimmy Carter took office in 1977,Holbrooke came back to government to became assistant secretary ofstate for East Asian and Pacific affairs, the youngest person everto hold an assistant secretary post.From 1985 until he was named ambassador to Germany by Clinton in1993, he was managing director of the New York investment firmLehman Brothers.
A year later he was recalled to Washington tobecome assistant secretary of state for European and Canadianaffairs a rank he held almost two decades earlier.But in the late summer of 1995, with Secretary of State WarrenChristopher's blessing, Holbrooke was handed the most sensitive andhigh-profile mission of his diplomatic career: to promote a peaceplan for Bosnia.Holbrooke lives with his third wife, the author Kati Marton, andher two children, Elizabeth Marton Jennings, 18, and ChristopherMarton Jennings, 15, on Central Park West.Holbrooke said the family plans to remain in their apartment;his official residence as U.N. ambassador a $27,000-a-month suiteatop the Waldorf Towers will be used for official functions.For months, cigarette-industry executives have said they wouldrather fight every lawsuit filed against them than support federallegislation like the $516 billion tobacco bill introduced by Sen.John McCain of Arizona.
With the scuttling of the McCain bill onWednesday, they are now likely to get plenty of practice.Today, over 800 lawsuits are pending against tobacco companies,a figure that represents a quadrupling of the number of such casesin just three years.
And along with health-related cases brought byindividual smokers, new groups of claimants ranging fromofficials of states and cities to insurers and union health plansto Indian tribes have also jumped into the legal chase.Some legal experts believe that many of these cases willdisappear or fail because they were filed simply to be in aposition to cash in on a potential congressional settlement oftobacco litigation.
And officials of tobacco companies, which havebeen largely unscathed in court, say they are confident they willcontinue to prevail.But the rapidly accelerating pace of lawsuits is also producinga high-speed game of legal Russian roulette for those companies.And every courtroom wound suffered by the industry, like a recent$1 million verdict in Florida, is likely to bring still morelawsuits, legal experts said.Robert Rabin, a professor at Stanford University School of Law,said he believed the industry had the resources to lose half of theindividual lawsuits brought against it as long as the number ofsuch cases annually ranged from 100 to 200 claims.
But Rabin saidhe foresees a litigation landslide if juries start giving out largepunitive-damage awards or if class-action claims like one set tobegin in Florida next month succeed.In the Florida case, producers face the first class-actionlawsuit ever brought to trial on behalf on smokers throughout astate claiming addiction or tobacco-related injuries.
And inSeptember, the industry faces another legal test when the trial ofa lawsuit brought by the attorney general of Washington state torecover Medicaid expenses begins.Tobacco-industry lawyers said that they are ready to take on allcomers.
And they add the industry's decision to pay out some $35billion over the past year to settle lawsuits brought by fourstates Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota did notreflect the weakness of their legal position, but rather the legalquirks of those cases and the industry's eagerness not to upsetmomentum for a national resolution.Little and other industry lawyers point to a number of recentvictories in which tobacco companies managed to have thrown outlawsuits brought by union health plans against them on proceduralgrounds or have some of the damage claims in lawsuits brought bystate attorneys general thrown out.But even some lawyers who have worked closely with the industrysaid tobacco makers now faced a new host of legal challengesbecause damaging industry documents had been recently disclosed aspart of those settlements and were already being put to use againstthe industry.Earlier this month, for example, a Florida jury, which revieweddocuments initially obtained by the state of Minnesota, orderedBrown Williamson Tobacco Co. to pay $1 million, including$500,000 in punitive damages, to the family of a man whose deathfrom cancer was blamed on cigarettes.
And lawyers handling theFlorida class-action claim are now battling in court to use theMinnesota records in their case.It was the desire to end legal uncertainty that led five majortobacco companies to pursue last June's $368.5 billion settlementproposal with state attorneys generals and class-action lawyers.That plan, under which producers agreed to restrict tobaccoadvertising and pay penalties if youth smoking did not fall,settled state lawsuits and barred class-action lawsuits and theawarding of punitive damages.Those provisions were critical because compensatory damages insmoking lawsuit, which have rarely been paid, were small.
But apunitive damage award, which is meant to punish a company, or theloss of a class-action case could produce significant financialdamage.Still, as the price tag of the June proposal grew in the Senate,cigarette producers saw the prospects of higher prices for theirproducts, lowered sales and the loss of lawsuit protections theyhad sought.Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, acompany that advises institutional investors on legal terms, saidshe is not surprised that producers have decided to take theirchances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewedcourtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general tojump-start their lawsuits against producers.
A large majority ofthe states involved in last June's plan were late in suingproducers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to wincongressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over thepast year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in alawsuit against a cigarette company.
Such a bill, which effectivelyallows a state to recover collectively rather than pressingindividual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was consideredinstrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate a successfulsettlement with the industry.Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, saidthat while some states have lost ground waiting to see whatCongress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceedingactively.Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try andrestart settlement negotiations between the industry and some stateattorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks verypreliminary.Ms.
Aronson and other legal experts added that while theybelieved the industry could overcome many of the claims filedagainst it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers andunion health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the firsttime.
And while those actions might not initially succeed, thesuccess of one could open the door for others.In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and thesteady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs abouttobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.Aronson and others added.North American shares have been led down by profit-takers whohave seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in LosAngeles.Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer sideeffects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly inthe coming decade.
In addition to North American, just two othercompanies currently make the seeds.North American shares have been led down by profit-takers whohave seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in LosAngeles.Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer sideeffects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly inthe coming decade.
In addition to North American, just two othercompanies currently make the seeds.North American shares have been led down by profit-takers whohave seen the company's stock rise nearly 700 percent in a year,according to analyst John Calcagnini at CIBC Oppenheimer in LosAngeles.Because the treatment, known as brachytherapy, has fewer sideeffects than surgery, its use is expected to grow significantly inthe coming decade.
In addition to North American, just two othercompanies currently make the seeds.DETROIT The best time to buy a new car is August or September,right?
Perhaps not this year: The end-of-the-model-year clearancemay have already begun.Sellers usually offer their best deals in late summer and earlyfall, as dealers try to clear their lots and showrooms to make roomfor the next year's models.
This year, however, supplies arealready low, thanks to a hearty economy, near-record vehicle sales,generous sales incentives and a spreading autoworker strike againstGeneral Motors Corp. With fewer cars to sell, manufacturers arelikely to cut back on their inducements to buyers.U.S.
vehicle sales reached 1.5 million cars and trucks in May,making it the strongest month since September 1986.
The seasonallyadjusted annual selling rate reached 16.3 million, the best levelsince October 1987, and the trend appears to be continuing thismonth.James Holden, Chrysler Corp.'s executive vice president forsales and marketing, said Chrysler's sales have been strong thismonth.
In May, Chrysler sold 250,000 cars and trucks, a one-monthrecord.The strong car and truck sales are set against the backdrop of arobust economy, and low interest rates have brought a wave ofmortgage refinancings, putting more money in Americans' pockets.But vehicle manufacturers have also offered sweeteners, spending asmuch as $1,700 a vehicle on sales incentives like cash rebates,low-interest loans and discount coupons in May and June, up fromabout $1,100 a year earlier.In April, after GM's share of the U.S. vehicle market fell below30 percent, the company sent previous customers certificates of$500 to $1,000 to use toward the purchase of 50 models, above andbeyond other incentives.
Ford and Chrysler matched GM's programwith their own loyalty incentives and agreed to accept GM'scertificates.
GM has declined to take coupons from Ford andChrysler.The industry is now closely watching strike developments at GM,the largest automaker.
Since workers at two Michigan partsfactories walked out two weeks ago, 21 of GM's North Americanassembly plants have shut down, idling more than 80,000 workers.Analysts say that if the strike is not settled soon it is likely tolast into mid-July, when a two-week plant shutdown was previouslyscheduled.
The strike, along with healthy spring sales, have causedsupplies of GM's cars and trucks, especially the most popularmodels, to dwindle.Inventories are particularly low of two all-new compact cars,the Pontiac Grand Am/Oldsmobile Alero, that were just introduced;of the Chevrolet Tahoe/GMC Yukon sport utilities, and of theChevrolet Malibu sedan.
If the strike continues, it could interferewith production of GM's most important models: all-new, full-sizeChevrolet and GMC pickups that replace the company's highlyprofitable, best-selling vehicles.WASHINGTON - An evening with Gov.
George W. Bush was the hotticket in the nation's capital Thursday as he flew in for aget-together with his family's longtime political supporters, atwo-event reunion expected to boost his campaign treasury by morethan $1 million.Although the money was earmarked for his re-election bid, theresponse from Washington lobbyists, Republican activists andofficials from his father's White House hampered Bush's efforts toknock down talk of his being a contender for the presidency in2000.Responses to an invitation to dine with the governor over cornchowder and beef medallions was so great that the $5,000-a-personevent had to be moved to a hotel from the home of JosephGildenhorn, who was ambassador to Switzerland under the governor'sfather, former President George Bush.On Wednesday, the guest list for the reception at the swankWillard Hotel was barely more than 500.
By the time the governorarrived in town, more than 800 were ponying up $500 for cocktailsand hors d'ouvres.Before arriving in Washington, Bush was one of the key draws ata fund-raiser Thursday in Greensboro, N.C., for Sen. LauchFaircloth.
Bush also has helped raise money for gubernatorialcandidates in California and Ohio, for the Republican NationalCommittee and the Republican Governors Association.
He alsoparticipated in an Arizona fund-raiser for Sen. John McCain.By the time formal invitations were printed, 156 people hadsigned up as hosts or chairmen of the reception and 52 were helpingto put on the dinner along with Gildenhorn.The money Bush raised Thursday is expected to push his campaigntreasury past the $16 million mark, which gives him a huge edgeover Democratic rival Garry Mauro.
The latest figures availableindicate Mauro, the state land commissioner, has raised $2.5million.Bush holds a equally lopsided lead over Mauro among the state'svoters, according to the most recent Texas Poll.
PublishedThursday, the poll shows Bush favored by 70 percent of the state'svoters compared to 17 percent for Mauro.
Mauro says the poll isflawed and that a Democratic pollster shows him trailing Bush butby a narrower margin, 63-28 percent.Early next week, Mauro has scheduled his own fund-raisingexcursion to Washington, where he will be joined by PresidentClinton at a $1,000-a-person reception and first lady HillaryRodham Clinton at a $5,000-a-plate dinner.
Vice President Al Gorewill attend a fund-raiser for Mauro in El Paso on June 25.
Allthree events are expected to raise about $400,000.
XXXXXXXEND OF STORYTo that end, technicians at three Cadillac dealerships aretesting a new computer technology developed by the General MotorsService Technology Group that lets them call up reams of serviceinformation with a spoken request.
Called Smart Mentor, the systemincludes a small computer that can be worn by the technician and isequipped with software that guides him through the diagnostic andrepair process.Because of its advanced speech-recognition technology, the SmartMentor is easy to master even by people who have never used apersonal computer.
The technician talks to the computer carried ina pouch attached to the waist.
A portable monitor hooks to thebumper or fender of a car.
The monitor displays text, animation andvideo instructions to diagnose and repair the vehicle.James L. Roach, senior project engineer for General Motors'Service Technology Group, demonstrated the system at the New Yorkauto show in April, by telling the computer that a 1997 CadillacSeville had an electrical charging problem.
A list of symptomspopped up on the screen, and Roach selected those that the car wasexhibiting.
The computer diagnosed the problem, suggested the toolsthe technician needed to make the repair and displayed a diagram ofthe area to be worked on.The hands-free system allows the technician to continue workingwithout leaving the job to look up information in paper manuals ora distant computer.
In addition, Smart Mentor should helptechnicians pinpoint problems more precisely, reducing thepossibility that they will recur.Not only is this good for customer relations, the shortage ofservice technicians requires that they work more efficiently.
Twoyears ago, GM chairman John Smith told the National AutomobileDealers Association that by the turn of the century, 60,000technician jobs would go unfilled.The industry is looking to the military to fill some of thosejobs.
Indeed, the Smart Mentor system was developed in cooperationwith a consortium that included the Defense Department and militarycontractors.
The same approach will be used by the military torepair tanks and trucks.Compounding the technician shortage is the increasing complexityand additional electronics of today's cars and trucks.
In 1965,GM's service manuals contained 5,000 pages of text; the manuals nowrun to 120,000 pages, and are likely to reach 200,000 pages withintwo years.ATLANTA -- The Cy Young Award has been passed around for acouple of years.
Greg Maddux apparently would like to have it backnow.Subdued for five superb innings by Florida rookie Jesus Sanchez,the Braves turned around Wednesday night with a four-run sixth tobeat the Marlins 6-2 and make Maddux baseball's first 10-gamewinner of the year.
Scratched for two unearned runs in the fourthoff a Tony Graffanino error, Maddux bore down to hold Floridascoreless the rest of the way to improve his record to 10-2.Winning their fourth straight, the Braves finally subduedSanchez with a four-run sixth, Gerald Williams' two-run double thecritical blow.
Chipper Jones then closed the show with a two-runhomer in the seventh, his 18th of the year.Maddux extended his win streak to eight games, the longest inthe NL this season.Held scoreless for the first five innings for just the seventhtime this season, the Braves went up 4-2 in the sixth, which Madduxbegan with a cue-shot single past first baseman Ryan Jackson.
AfterWalt Weiss walked on four pitches, Williams ripped Sanchez's firstpitch down the left field line, scoring both men to tie it.
Thedouble was Williams second of the game and his third in hisprevious four at-bats.Andres Galarraga, who had struck out twice with men on, hit thefirst pitch into the right-center gap for a 3-2 lead and afterAndruw Jones walked to load the bases, Danny Bautista sent ashallow fly into right field.
Chipper Jones tagged up anyway andscored easily for a 4-2 advantage when Mark Kotsay's throw bouncedtwice on the way to the plate.Through the first five innings, Sanchez struck out nine andalthough he had allowed a pair of doubles, both times he maneuveredaround the trouble.
After Chipper Jones' two-out double in thefirst, Sanchez struck out Galarraga to end the inning.
AfterWilliams opened the fourth with a double, Sanchez fanned both Jonesand Galarraga before inducing an inning-ending ground-out fromAndruw Jones.Maddux faced the minimum through the first three innings butTodd Dunwoody became a problem in the fourth when he reached firston second baseman Tony Graffanino's fourth error of the season.Advanced to third by Edgar Renteria's sacrifice and Kotsay'sground-out, Dunwoody scored the night's first run on Todd Zeile'ssingle.Zeile, hitting .363 with runners in scoring position and twoouts since joining the Marlins, stole second on a 2-1 pitch toCliff Floyd.
The Marlins' lead then grew to 2-0 when Floyd sent asinking liner into right, which Williams could not handle in adiving attempt.
Both runs were unearned.CHAPEL HILL, N.C.
In this region with one of America's fastestgrowing Hispanic populations, little-known scientist Stephen D.Mumford offers an unorthodox solution to the immigration problem hesees brewing.He suggests that developing nations supply women with tiny pillsthat prevent pregnancy by scarring their fallopian tubes pills thatMumford already supplies.
The permanent sterilization would, inturn, reduce the number of immigrants to the United States.Over the past decade, quinacrine tablets that Mumford and fellowcontraceptive researcher Elton Kessel have distributed to ThirdWorld countries have been used to sterilize more than 100,000women.Since Mumford's controversial role in internationalcontraception was reported in Thursday's editions of The WallStreet Journal, the phone has been ringing in his brick split-levelhouse on the outskirts of this university town.
Mostly, he said,news organizations wanted him to elaborate on his views, or appearon television talk shows where, Mumford concedes, he would likelybe lambasted as inhumane or crazy.He said much of the U.S. population growth over the next halfcentury will be driven by immigrants, and he fears they will sapthe nation's resources and drive down the overall standard ofliving.First used by American soldiers in World War II to preventmalaria, quinacrine is barred in the United States forsterilizations.
Many health organizations question itseffectiveness considering the possible risks.Funded over the past decade by $1 million from U.S. backers,including anti-immigration advocates, Mumford's efforts arefamiliar to some in the field of population control.
The recentpublicity, however, unleashed fresh criticism that repressivegovernments can use quinacrine sterilization against women's will.Mumford worked for the organization , but left in the early1980s in a rift with more traditional researchers.
His views onimmigration illustrate the split.ATLANTA -- Mark Wohlers began walking from the bullpen with thelast pitch Thursday and did not stop until he found himself in themanager's office, asking Bobby Cox to send him to the minors.Although the Braves are uncertain how to handle the transaction,Wohlers will leave today for the club's minor-league complex inOrlando, where the deposed closer will attempt to relocate thestrike zone.
To remain with the Braves had become a waste ofeveryone's time.The Braves closed out their nine-game homestand with a 3-2 lossto the Florida Marlins, who beat Tom Glavine (9-3) for their firstroad victory since May 18.
Atlanta went 5-4 against visitingBoston, Montreal and Florida, which claimed its sixth away victoryon an RBI single by Todd Ziele off Dennis Martinez with two outs inthe eighth.Atlanta opens a weekend series in Montreal tonight.
In themeanwhile, the Braves are plotting options with Wohlers.
The clubcould place him on the disabled list again, claiming he is stillunfit to pitch because of the torn left oblique injured on May 4.He then would be eligible to appear in Gulf Coast (Rookie) Leaguegames with the Gulf Coast Braves.He also could accept an optional assignment; players with fiveyears experience first must agree to such a move.
But becauseWohlers is 28 and above the rookie-league minimum, he could notappear in Gulf Coast competition.
Guy Hansen, the Braves' specialassistant for scouting and player development, will join him onMonday.The assignment is open-ended, and no determination has been madewhen Wohlers (0-1, 8-for-8 in save chances, 5.06 ERA) might rejointhe team.
If rumors about his future with the club were movingbefore Thursday, they will be flying now.ATLANTA -- Unless the Scottish Rite Festival expands the annualGeorgia-Florida All-Star Football Game to include a basketball gameor another interstate football game, Florida may choose not toreturn to Atlanta after 1999, when the current three-year dealexpires.Florida Athletic Coaches Association executive director WinkBarnette said his organization agreed to the pact with theunderstanding that Scottish Rite would add a Georgia-FloridaAll-Star basketball game and bring football all-star teams fromTennessee and either Kentucky or Alabama to form a doubleheader.SAN DIEGO -- Chad Smith's got a pierced eyebrow, a tongue ringand furry spotted pants that are available from hisalternative-clothing company, Vinyl Boy.Oh, and he can skate, too, which got him into the ESPN X Gamesthis weekend.
But it's the look that will get him on TV.
Air time,it seems, is an even bigger deal than the $10,000 purse in hisevent.Bogus?
Maybe.
That's the X Games part sport, part made-for-TVentertainment tailored for the generation it's named for.No one agrees more than Derek Downing of Cumming, who has wonthe downhill in-line twice in the three-year X Games history.
He'senjoyed a few perks, like seeing his trophies displayed at theAll-Star Cafe.
But in terms of exposure, his friend Smith has himbeat.The prize money, three times larger than what's offered at mostpro skating events, ensures a competitive field even thoughskaters don't take these kind of risks any other time all year.Most in-line races are distance events on flatter terrain.The format, cameras and hype have stamped the X Games asmade-for-TV, a label that makes organizers bristle.
Out of theextreme sports culture, they say, have emerged personalities thatcannot be ignored.Embracing a trend that is rapidly reshaping the Internet, WaltDisney Co. let it be known Thursday that the Tomorrowland ofcyberspace will be entered through a giant consumer gateway cobbledwith the gadgets of interactive technologies and the proven lure oftraditional media news, sports, entertainment and information.On Thursday, Disney announced a complex deal valued at about$900 million in which it will buy 43 percent of Infoseek, a servicethat helps guide users to what they want on the World Wide Web.
Theannouncement capped two weeks of fevered developments across mediaand technology industries that were too small to shake thefinancial markets but obviously a trend that was too significant toignore.Last week, General Electric's NBC unit struck a deal to takecontrol of Snap, an upstart online directory service, for up to $65million in cash and more than $100 million in free televisionpromotions.On Monday it was reported that ATT had been negotiating toacquire America Online.
And on Tuesday, Microsoft Corp. opened apublic test of its new portal, known as Start, which is expected tobe in full operation by the end of the year.In the meantime, Netscape Communications Corp. is busy shiftingits focus from making browsers to operating a portal site, andmedia giants like Time Warner and News Corp. are looking to buildor buy similar services.While there are tens of thousands of commercial Web sites, mostof the attention is now focused on the handful that help users findthe information, services or entertainment what they are lookingfor.
Since many people use these sites to start their treks throughcyberspace, they are far and away the most popular places on theInternet.
As a result, they have attracted the lion's share ofadvertising as well as investor interest.America Online, which 18 months ago was drowning in busy signalsand irate customers, has rebounded into the powerhouse ofcyberspace with 12 million paying customers, a market value of $19billion and the self assurance to rebuff ATT's takeover offer lastmonth.Yahoo, the largest of the free, advertiser-supported portalservices, attracts more than 70 million users a month and has avalue of about $6 billion, despite barely breaking even.As these sites grow rapidly in market value and viewership ifnot profits many media companies are deciding that they need tobuy one quickly, despite the high prices, before they becomeunaffordable.
More than one media giant has expressed regret fornot having bought America Online when it was much cheaper.Moreover, as television, telephones and computers all convergeinto one integrated network of communications and entertainment,companies of all sorts see portals as a possible keystone to theirfuture strategy.
The power to funnel users to certain advertisersand content sites is worth millions of dollars in revenue.Disney's intention is to create a new Internet service thatcombines Infoseek with its existing offerings, which include Websites for ABC television, ABC News, the ESPN sports network,Disney's movies, and a site of original Disney entertainment forchildren.Disney, like many other media companies, has been talking to anumber of portal services over the last year.
A few months ago, itwas close to buying a part of Excite, the No.
2 portal service, butthe deal fell apart over the price, investment bankers said.With the stock of the search services trading at stratosphericprices, big companies have been loath to buy them either with cashor their own, more conventionally valued shares.Disney's deal gets around this problem by trading some of itsown Internet ventures at the high value such companies carry for shares in Infoseek.
Specifically, Disney will receive 43percent of Infoseek in return for $70 million in cash andrelinquishing ownership of Starwave, a company that createselaborate Web sites.Starwave's biggest venture is the sports site it operates onbehalf of ESPN.
Disney bought Starwave in several phases over thelast year from Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft.
KeithBenjamin, an analyst for BancAmerica Robertson Stephens, estimatedthat Disney paid about $400 million for Starwave and that it wouldbe worth about $800 million if it were an independent company.Thursday's announcement represented something of an about-facefor Disney.
When it bought full control of Starwave two months ago,it announced plans to integrate the Seattle-based technologycompany with its own Internet operations in Burbank, Calif. Now,all of Starwave will become part of Infoseek, which hasheadquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., in Silicon Valley.Disney also agreed to lend Infoseek up to $139 million over thenext five years in return for the option to bring its ownership to50.1 percent.
Disney, however, will get back most of the cash it isspending, as Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million in advertisingfrom Disney over the next three years.
That money will buy bothtelevision advertising on ABC and promotion at other Disneyoperations, like the Internet pavilion at Disney World.NBC's deal to buy a stake in Snap was much more favorable to theshareholders of Cnet, the company that owned the portal, Benjaminsaid.
In particular, it will provide more than $100 million in freetelevision advertising.NBC, however, has much more limited ambitions for Snap, aservice with well-regarded technology and very few users.
Thetelevision network hopes that heavy TV promotions will turn Snapinto a popular, stand-alone guide service.
NBC's other Internetactivities, especially its MSNBC news service operated withMicrosoft, will remain separate from Snap.Disney, by contrast, is looking to merge its properties into aunified service that will have more of the cohesive feel thatAmerica Online has.Right now, America Online charges users a $22 monthly fee forboth access to the Internet and its own content.
Portal serviceslike Infoseek and Snap have been free to users.
But Winebaum ofDisney said the company hopes to come up with extra services forwhich users will pay fees.
Disney's ESPN site earns half itsrevenue, for example, from add-on services like fantasy sportsleagues.Even as the big media companies are buying the existing portalsites, many other companies of all sorts are jockeying for positionto earn money as Internet Gateways.
Smaller sites that beganoffering specialized services are now trying to emulate the lookand features of sites like Yahoo.The most feared is Microsoft's Start, because it will be thefirst page seen by users of the Internet Explorer browser softwarethat is now part of the Windows operating system.
MeanwhileNetscape, whose software business has been devastated by Microsoft,has been trying to turn its often visited but dreary home page intoa service with as much news and information as the other portalsites.And Compaq Computer is even trying to turn its products intoportals by installing several buttons on its computer keyboardsthat direct users to certain Web sites.Analysts said that all these moves represent the massing offorces for what will shape up to be a long and brutal war overwhich two or three portal services will become dominant.With the stakes in the online world far lower a few years ago,America Online spent a $1 billion on television advertising anddistribution of sign-up disks to surge past its rivals, Prodigy andCompuserve.TOKYO In a few weeks Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto willface nationwide elections as he presides over the worst recessionin more than 50 years, a limp stock market and the highestunemployment rate since records began to be kept.Yet experts overwhelmingly expect his governing LiberalDemocratic Party to do very well.
The latest polls show it withmore than five times as much support as any other party.Now Hashimoto is more likely than ever to do well, for PresidentClinton handed him a political gift on Wednesday by agreeing to ajoint U.S.-Japanese campaign to bolster the sagging yen.
Whetherthe jawboning and billions of dollars in foreign-exchangeintervention succeed in propping up the yen, they will almostcertainly succeed in propping up Hashimoto.The premise of Clinton's decision to go to Hashimoto's aid wasthat Japan would take, as Clinton put it, aggressive and bold stepsthat would justify a higher rate for the yen.
But many analystshere say that the Japanese political process militates againstfundamental change and that Hashimoto's relative popularitysuggests that the public wants someone like him, a repairman forthe old system rather than an architect for a new one.To be sure, although Americans would like more, some repairs arestill crucial.
One that Japanese officials are focusing on would befor the banking system, and particularly the bad loans thatoverwhelm it.All this raises puzzling questions about the Japanese politicalprocess.
In most industrialized countries there is a built-incorrective mechanism when an economy veers off course.
Disgruntledvoters evict the old team and choose new leaders who promise to dothings differently.
Yet despite eight years of economic stagnationthe Japanese political system has not responded in that way.Certainly Japan does not have the feel of a country in a severedownturn.
There are very few homeless people, soup kitchens,bankruptcies or vacant buildings.
Although there are somedifferences in measurements, the record unemployment rate in Japanis still 4.1 percent, less than the 4.3 rate in the United States.An old saying defines a recession as when your neighbor is laidoff.
When you are laid off it is a depression.
By thosedefinitions, for the great majority of Japanese this is still not arecession.The sliding yen had been a visible and humiliating signal ofJapanese economic weakness.
But for now the joint U.S.-Japaneseintervention may have arrested the slide.
In early Asian trading onFriday, the yen was quoted at 137.30 to the dollar, compared to 146before the intervention.
The gulf in perceptions inside and outsideJapanese on the seriousness of the economic situation here isdifficult to exaggerate.To Americans and many Asians these days it sometimes seems thatJapan's economy is burning and is threatening to ignite all of Asiaand, perhaps, the United States and Europe, as well.
For thosefearing a global economic conflagration, nothing is moreinfuriating than the sight of Hashimoto as he passively watches theflames and seeming to do little more than blithely insisting thatthe fire will eventually subside.In a similar situation Nero fiddled, but not for eight years that is the kind of grumbling one hears from U.S. officials thesedays.To Japanese officials the foreign carping seems foolish andpetulant.
Some say the U.S. government is simply nervous about itsown bubble economy and is looking for a scapegoat to blame whenstock prices inevitably collapse.
And most Japanese say the risksare exaggerated.Moreover, many Japanese insist that their country is seriouslyaddressing the recession and the Asian crisis.
They note that theJapanese government has put in place a huge stimulus package, thebiggest in the nation's history, and that the government hascontributed far more to Asian bailouts than the United States.In any case, for all the bewilderment and anger at Japan'sreluctance to do more to stimulate its economy, in JapanHashimoto's behavior makes some sense and appears in keeping withthe public mood.
After all, he just celebrated the LiberalDemocratic Party's latest victory, on Sunday in a parliamentaryby-election.That was the sixth consecutive victory in by-elections for theLiberal Democrats, and polls suggest that they will also do verywell in elections for the upper house on July 12.
The upper houseis much less significant than the lower house, but the electionwill nonetheless be an important test of sentiment, and Hashimotoseems ready to pass with flying colors.A poll this week in the Yomiuri newspaper, taken just before theintervention to support the yen, found that the support forHashimoto's government had dipped, from 33 to 30 percent.
Butperhaps more important, 29 percent of those interviewed said theystill supported the Liberal Democrats, compared to 5.5 percent forthe leading opposition group, the Democratic Party.The Liberal Party, which advocates precisely the far-reachingeconomic reorganization and stimulus policies that Washington wouldlike to see in Japan, had the support of 1.7 percent.There have been widespread hints that Mr. Hashimoto will be moreaggressive in tackling Japan's financial problems immediately afterthe election.
But that, too, tells something about the public mood.Instead of promising before the election to address the economicmess and mountain of bad bank loans, the speculation is that hewill tackle these issues only after he no longer has to face thevoters.Morse argues that Japan suffers from cronyism and structuraleconomic problems quite similar to those of South Korea andIndonesia.
Those countries were bailed out by the InternationalMonetary Fund on the condition that they accept painfulreorganizations.But Japan has not collapsed in the way that South Korea orIndonesia did, so Morse said he believed that the political processwould not lead to a fundamental overhaul of the economy.Tobacco stocks rebounded Thursday, the day after the latestversion of a tobacco-settlement bill was stubbed out like, well, acigarette.Shares of Philip Morris Cos., the maker of Marlboro, rose$1.125, to $39.5625.
RJR Nabisco climbed 75 cents, to $25.0625.Even Brooke Group, the parent of Liggett Myers that becamepopular recently because of an earlier deal that freed it from taxpenalties proposed in the bill, showed some spark during trading,though it closed down 25 cents.Was this a sigh of relief from investors who have been on arough ride for the last several years?
A momentary uptick in thesagging fortunes of corporations stuck with products destined forthe ash heap of history?
Or was it a long-overdue recognition ofthe inherent value of companies like RJR Nabisco and Philip Morris,regardless of the all-too-visible hand of Congress?It may be none, or all, of the above.
Certainly the biggestworry for investors the threat of interminable litigation andoverwhelming punitive damages from the hundreds of lawsuits thathave been filed against tobacco companies remained.
Withoutrestrictions on such lawsuits and awards, many people who mightotherwise buy into tobacco companies were staying away, not wantingto put their money into companies whose earnings could be siphonedoff by having to make all those payments.There are other issues that went away, more or less, along withthe bill, which was sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. One wasthe spectre of higher prices for cigarettes, which some fearedwould create a contraband market for them.
Another was spending forprograms to reduce youth smoking, which was also a major element ofthe June 20 plan.Take a look at what would happen if Philip Morris, say, broke upinto several small companies and eliminated domestic tobacco salesfrom its balance sheet.
Right away, the remaining businesses international tobacco, Kraft Foods and Miller Brewing Co. wouldbe worth about $66 a share, Goldman estimated.
Adding aconservative valuation for domestic tobacco back in would raise theprice by about $12 a share, he said, bringing the price to $78, ornearly twice what the stock was selling for Thursday.Turning to RJR Nabisco, one could do the same.
Goldman said thecompany without its domestic tobacco business was worth about $47,and $58 with the domestic tobacco added in.DALLAS The cutbacks coursing through the chip industry reachedTexas Instruments Inc. on Thursday as the company announced plansto eliminate 3,500 jobs, or 8 percent of its work force.
Thecompany cited both the recent sale of several divisions and a weak,glutted market for chips, especially in Asia.The cut follows word in April that National Semiconductor waschopping 1,400 jobs and Intel 3,000 jobs, and word in June thatMotorola was eliminating 15,000 jobs.To further protect itself, Texas Instruments reached anagreement Thursday to sell its computer memory-chip business toMicron Technology Inc. for about $641 million in stock plus $190million in debt.
The deal, which was expected, will make MicronTechnology the world's largest maker of memory chips, with about 18percent of the market, several percentage points more than Samsung.Of the 3,500 jobs to be cut, about 2,500 will be in the UnitedStates, including 600 from the closing of a memory-chip plant nearthe company's base in Dallas.
The cutback will save the companyabout $270 million a year before taxes, but incentives and othercosts will roughly equal the savings over the first year.
Thecompany anticipates some layoffs, with the number depending on howmany workers depart voluntarily.Having already sold off military electronics and laptop-computerdivisions, Texas Instruments will remain a maker of specializedchips, primarily those called digital signal processors, which areused in cellular phones, computer networking equipment, cars andcomputer components such as modems and hard drives.
Though demandfor these chips is growing rapidly, Aylesworth said that computermakers already had excessive inventories of components such as harddrives.Micron Technology plans to capitalize on its position as thememory-chip industry's low-cost producer.
To make the necessaryinvestments, especially in the purchased operations, MicronTechnology won an agreement to borrow $750 million from TexasInstruments.Texas Instruments in turn becomes Micron Technology's largestshareholder, with about 12 percent of the company.
TexasInstruments will hold more than 16 percent if it exercises itsright to convert most of its loan into more shares.Micron Technology also reported Thursday a third-quarter lossthat was bigger than expected.
The company, which is based inBoise, Idaho, posted a loss of $106.1 million, compared withearnings of $96.8 million in the quarter a year earlier.ARLINGTON, Texas Todd Van Poppel returned to the major leaguesyesterday, older than the first time and more prepared to pitch tobig-league hitters.Van Poppel, the onetime phenom from Martin High School inArlington who made it to the majors with the Oakland Athletics as a19-year-old, joined the Rangers from Triple-A Oklahoma.
Hiscontract will be officially purchased before he starts tomorrownight against the Angels in Anaheim.Van Poppel likely has two chances to fill the spot on along-term basis.
His second start will probably be Thursday inArizona, and Darren Oliver is due back from a stint on the disabledlist the next day.
The Rangers would face a decision on whether VanPoppel or Matt Perisho, Oliver's replacement, sticks in therotation.If the Rangers decide Van Poppel isn't the answer in therotation, they will consider keeping him in the bullpen, and notonly because he is out of options and can't be sent back to theminors without clearing waivers.Van Poppel was 5-5 with a 3.72 earned-run average at Oklahoma,and 3-0 with a 2.57 ERA in his past four starts.Van Poppel was a first-round draft pick of the A's in 1990 aftera stellar career at Martin High.
He made it to the majors inSeptember '91, and struck out five of the first six big-leaguebatters he faced.But after 3 1/2 years in the majors, including stints with fourorganizations and with a 20-33 record and 6.22 ERA, he was releasedby the Kansas City Royals.The Rangers signed him to a minor-league deal in June 1997, andsent him to Class A to start again.The Rangers simplified his mechanics, and this year he began tothrow a slider for the first time.
He began getting hitters outconsistently, earning another chance in the majors.NEW YORK Chinese authorities in Shanghai on Thursday detainedthe shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera thatis scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln CenterFestival, threatening to disrupt the New York event and start aninternational incident.When the criticisms first emerged this week, Lincoln Centerinformally asked the State Department and the U.S. InformationAgency to follow the situation.
After Thursday's action, in whichthe Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Culture refused permission forsets from the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Company to leave the airport,the State Department intervened.At the same time, Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of LincolnCenter, sought help from Henry Kissinger, the former secretary ofstate, who is a friend of hers.
Because the production is scheduledto move on to the Festival d'Automne in Paris in November, theFrench Foreign Ministry has also become involved.An American official who spoke on the condition of anonymitysaid that it was not clear whether the Chinese government, which ispreparing for a visit by President Clinton next week, had playedany part in the matter.The shipment in question, consisting of all the sets, props andcostumes for the production, was ostensibly held back for aninspection of the contents, according to Lincoln Center officials.The authorities allowed the containers to be reclosed, Reddensaid, adding that he hoped they would be shipped on the nextavailable flight, on Sunday.
But he said the authorities still hadobjections to the production that could pose further problems.WASHINGTON With Democrats maintaining that the Republicanleadership was once again trying to delay any final vote oncampaign finance, the House voted Thursday to open the debate to ablizzard of amendments.The procedure rare in a House that is usually controlledtightly to allow only limited debate and a handful of amendments was approved on a near-party-line vote, 221-189.
Republicanproponents of overhauling campaign finance law stood with theirparty after receiving assurances from the House Majority LeaderDick Armey that the issue would be brought to a final vote by thetime the House takes its August recess.From the other side of the aisle, Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, themajority whip, an opponent of the overhaul effort, mocked thecomplaints.It was just another moment in the odyssey of campaign financeoverhaul, an issue that has unexpectedly refused to die this yeardespite the concerted efforts of Republican leaders in both housesto block any changes that would erode their party's fund-raisingadvantage.House Speaker Newt Gingrich tried to dispense with the matter inMarch under rules that never allowed the main, bipartisan overhaulbill to the floor.
But the speaker's tactic boomerangedpolitically, giving the overhaul effort new momentum.Next he promised that the issue would come up in May.Technically it did for several hours of debate and with no votes.Since then, the House has been meandering through a thicket ofcampaign finance proposals, usually at night.Rep.
Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., attributed the demise ofanti-smoking legislation in the Senate to the tobacco industry'scampaign contributions to the Republican Party.She went on to quote from a Wall Street Journal article aboutRep.
Linda Smith, R-Wash., who is running for the Senate.
In thatarticle, Ms. Smith, first elected to the House in 1994, said shehad quickly discovered that it was common practice for Republicanleaders to hold up action on bills while seeking more donationsfrom interested contributors.Probable starting pitchers: Tonight RHP Kevin Millwood (9-2,3.73 ERA; 1-0, 1.00 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. RHP Shawn Boskie (0-0,0.00; 1-4, 4.50 lifetime vs. Braves).
Saturday RHP John Smoltz(4-1, 3.94; 10-6.
2.56 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. LHP Carlos Perez(6-5, 3.64; 2-3, 2.98 lifetime vs. Braves).
Sunday LHP DennyNeagle (8-4, 3.18; 5-6, 3.96 lifetime vs. Expos) vs. RHP DustinHermanson (4-6, 3.20; 0-2, 5.40 lifetime vs. Braves).Past meetings:The Braves have taken 2-of-3 from the Expos twice this season atTurner Field.Quickly: Tuesday, the Expos optioned right-hander Mike Johnsonto Ottawa and called up veteran Shawn Boskie, who spent last seasonwith the Cubs, Phillies and Mariners.
Johnson was pounded inAtlanta in his last outing Saturday, giving up eight hits and sevenearned runs in just three innings. . . .
The Expos are theweakest-hitting team in the majors, with a .243 average and just221 RBIs.
Only Cincinnati fields worse than Montreal, which has a.975 fielding percentage and 67 errors.Who's hot: Guerrero leads the club in batting, runs and hits.
Inhis last 14 games, he's batting .345 (20-for-58) with six doubles,three homers and 11 RBIs.Who's not: Rookie Vazquez (1-6, 6.00) had lost his last fourdecisions and had not won in eight starts (four no-decisions) sinceMay 1 entering Thursday night's start against the Mets.Didn't make any difference Thursday at The Ted.
Klesko's batremains ablaze, but a fourth-inning base-running error, which helater second-guessed, played a part in the Braves' 3-2 loss to theFlorida Marlins.Down 2-1, the Braves started the fourth inning with threestraight singles, off the bats of Andres Galarraga, Klesko and JavyLopez.
Lopez's single up the middle scored Galarraga to tie thescore.Klesko's aggressiveness, however, caused him to stumble over thebase and fall.
When he reached back for third, Florida's Todd Zeilehad his glove and the ball there to meet his fingers.After the game, Klesko sounded as if he wanted to find a spotthere himself.He didn't.
Lopez's single, the third in a row of the inning,also was the last of the inning.
Michael Tucker followed by forcingLopez out at second, and Andruw Jones hit a weak grounder to firstto end the inning.After Klesko's faux pas, only two more Braves got as far assecond base.
And the Marlins' pitchers hushed all possibilities ofanother score.Klesko is batting .418 (18-for-43) with four homers and 13 RBIsduring his hot stretch.
But the blunder?SAN FRANCISCO -- It seemed the sensible thing to do.
In thefirst place, picking out a player to follow the first round of agolf tournament is a crapshoot.
The chance of picking the playerwho might take the lead is even more uncertain than trying to pickthe winner.
This U.S. Open started out with 7,117 applications, andanother 136 came in late, out of which 156 would eventually makethe field.Sixty-seven are exempt.
The rest have to go through qualifying.Larry Mize missed by a stroke.
Fred Funk didn't make it.
TrevorDodds and Steve Pate, Tour winners, had to survive playoffs.
CraigStadler and Bruce Lietzke refuse to try any longer.You decide the wise thing to do is pick a guy with a localbackground and see how it works out.
Stewart Cink has done well inthe U.S. Open, no worse than 16th place, which in 1996 won aninvitation to the Masters.
He was paired with Fuzzy Zoeller,another pleasant fellow to watch, and Retief Goosen, a young SouthAfrican who is beginning to make his home on the European Tour.Cink and Zoeller both birdie the first hole, Cink out of theheavy stuff twice.
Cink goes 2-under par with a birdie on the 5thhole and follows that with another from about 15 feet on the 6th.This is looking good.
The early leader board is looking good.Woods, Couples, Montgomerie, Daly and Verplank are up there.Some of those little one-person carts are trying to making itaround the course.
This course isn't friendly to such unstabletoys.
You look down from the clubhouse, across the fairways cutthrough the huge cypress and pines, the championship course at TheOlympic Club looks like the Grand Canyon of golf.
One senior almosttoppled and complained that his sciatica was killing him.
My wifegave him two Advil and told him to call his doctor in the morning.Word just flashed on the board that Tiger Woods had doubled theshortest hole on the course.
It's 137 yards up the hill toward theclubhouse, No.
8.
He later four-putted another hole and soon wasoff the board.
Cink was now leading the tournament, the same Cinkwho had twice beaten Woods while they were in college.He was 3-under, soon to be joined by a guy playing just ahead ofhim, Ted Oh, a 21-year-old Korean from Las Vegas, who shares ButchHarmon, the professor, with Woods.
This was really looking goodnow.Well, the ninth hole rose up and bit Cink.
More to the point,Cink bit himself with a tee shot in the deep spinach.
He could onlypitch out and settle for his first bogey.
He made the turn twounder par, but Cink's flirtation with the lead was done for theday.
He bogeyed the 11th from the rough, but hell struck on the16th, 609 yards long, par-5.
He left it the rough twice, missed thegreen, then two-putted.
Double bogey.Tom Watson had predicted that the winning score will be overpar.
That being the case, Payne Stewart was looking pretty good at66.
He had made his score on the tough holes, 16, 17 and 18, andprobably no player would birdie would birdie the last two holes allweek.
As for Cink, he wouldn't even be low Yellow Jacket.
Thatwould be the kid, amateur Matt Kuchar, coming in at even par, stillon his Masters games, flashing his old Masters smile.
VIAGRA After anguishing for weeks over how to cope with Viagramania, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's biggest HMO, will announcetoday plans to exclude coverage of the hit blue pill for maleimpotence.
By Carl Hall INFOSEEK Tomorrowland got a whole new meaning yesterday whenWalt Disney Co. agreed to acquire 43 percent of Infoseek Corp., aleading Internet search and directory service based in Sunnyvale.By David Einstein PCEXPO Godzilla made a repeat visit to New York this week inthe form of Microsoft, which stomped into town to take over the bigPC Expo trade show.
By David EinsteinIn addition, the HMO's new national policy will apply to otherprescription treatments for erectile dysfunction, includingsuppositories and pills not yet on the market.The decision was reached after an unprecedented national policyreview that had a team of physicians, ethicists and pharmacistsdelving into such issues as the medical necessity for erections andthe dangers of recreational use of pills like Viagra.A stunning 2 million prescriptions have been written for PfizerInc.
's Viagra since it was approved by the Food and DrugAdministration in April making Viagra the most successful newpharmaceutical on record.It's become a staple of late-night talk-show banter, and it's soeasy to purchase that one can order it over the Internet.
But it'sexpensive selling wholesale for $7 a pill, retail for about $9 or$10.In the last analysis, though, economic factors, as opposed tomedical issues, decided the question for Kaiser.
Even if users werelimited to 10 pills a month, the HMO estimated that the cost wouldexceed $100 million a year.By comparison, Kaiser dispensed only $59 million worth ofanti-virals last year, a category that includes all the proteaseinhibitors and other expensive drugs used to fight AIDS.Kaiser's decision overrules some regional decisionmakers who hadhoped the HMO would provide at least limited coverage to helpcertain patients.Several other HMOs have adopted rules limiting Viagra coverageto six pills or so each month.
About half of state-run Medicaidprograms provide Viagra benefits.
Standard Medicare coveragedoesn't include any self-administered drugs, although some HMOplans have been extending Viagra benefits that generally matchwhat's being offered through commercial plans.Viagra is the only FDA-approved pill affected by the new Kaiserpolicy.
But at least two other potential impotence treatments,considered to be a year or two away from the FDA-approval stage,also will be excluded, along with the so-called Muse suppository,Kaiser officials said.The policy will take full effect when standard HMO contractscome up for renewal, generally the first of the year.
Employers andother health-plan purchasers would have to buy an optionalsupplemental benefit plan if they want Kaiser to provide thecoverage anyway.Kaiser doctors may continue to write prescriptions for Viagra,and the drug will be available in the HMO's pharmacies.
But thestandard $5 co-payment will not cover the cost.In Northern California, where Kaiser provides HMO coverage toroughly 2.7 million people, or 1 of every 3 insured residents,Viagra has never made its way onto the list of reimbursedmedications.She said excluding Viagra is inconsistent with policies that payfor such things as seasonal allergy medications that also improvequality of life, even if they don't treat life-threateningconditions.Patients and advocates specializing in erectile dysfunctionroundly condemned Kaiser's decision, calling it a misguided slapagainst those who want erection problems treated as a diseaserather than a joke.Shapiro said taking the pill helped him regain not only fullsexual function but also helped him fight bouts of depression.Betsy Imholz, senior attorney for Consumers Union in SanFrancisco, noted that Kaiser will pay for office treatments andsurgery for erection problems.But some top medical experts took Kaiser's side, maintainingthat all HMO members should not have to bear the cost of the sexualactivities of a few men.Editors at print publications shuddered when Internet-based newsorganizations like Cnet, Salon and Motley Fool began to crop up in1996.The new media business isn't as profitable as its proponents hadhoped.
That has led many online ventures to peddle their content tonewspapers and magazines in an effort to attract more readers andeventually more advertisers.Syndicated online content reaches 10 times more readers in printthan on the Web, even though some publications are hesitant tocarry content from online rivals.Though syndication fees are nominal as little as $50 a weekfor a package of news and features the potential payoff issignificant for online news operations.
Newspaper syndication helpsWeb sites build brand-name recognition, reach a broader audienceand pocket some cash in the process.
Motley Fool, an irreverent financial tip sheet on AmericaOnline and the Web, is the king of new-meets-old media syndication.It is distributed by Universal Press Syndicate in 136 newspapers among them the Los Angeles Times, Chicago Sun-Times, PhiladelphiaInquirer and Detroit Free Press.
It is also carried on radio and inbooks.
Salon, an online magazine, offers a weekly package of columnsand features through New York syndication giant United Features.About 30 North American newspapers carry it, including the New YorkDaily News, Hartford Courant and Toronto Globe and Mail.But it's a two-way street.
Most newspapers and magazines poststories on their own Web sites.
And media giants like Walt Disneyand NBC are snapping up online ventures.Despite all the breathless hype about the Internet, it hasn'tsignificantly changed Americans' news-reading habits.
Many stillrely heavily on their local paper and TV for news, according to arecent national study by Pew Research Center.The deal which probably will involve the issuance ofCornerstone securities to Wilson's owners is expected to besealed over the weekend and officially announced early next week.The lion's share of the proceeds will go to principal owner andfounder Bill Wilson, a Stanford graduate whose real-estateassociates have included the Rockefeller family, Yale University,pension funds and various private partnerships.It owns more than 11 million square feet of office spacethroughout California, including substantial holdings in SanFrancisco and on the Peninsula.
It also has properties in thePacific Northwest.The firm built the architecturally striking Oracle Corp.headquarters complex in Redwood Shores and owns a building occupiedby Gap Inc. in San Mateo.
It also owns San Mateo's Borel OfficeCenter, a multitenant, four-building complex.Last year, it bought the Equitable Life Building at 120Montgomery St. in San Francisco in a deal reportedly worth $70 million.Wilson and Cornerstone which also owns about 11 million squarefeet of office space combined with Gap Chairman Donald Fisherthis year in an unsuccessful bid for San Francisco's 3.76million-square-foot Embarcadero Center.Sources said Cornerstone, which specializes in office propertiesin prime metropolitan areas, views Wilson as a more-than-acceptableconsolation prize in its effort to establish a major foothold inthe booming Bay Area office market.For Bill Wilson, now is the ideal time to sell, says James F.Wilson (no relation), an analyst with Jefferies Co. in SanFrancisco.After opening at $45.50, Tekelec shares lost as much as $5,before regaining some ground to close down $4.875 at $40.625.
Morethan 1 million shares traded hands, nearly four times the issue'ssix-month average daily volume.Thursday's drop came a day after Tekelec officials finished aroad show to New York and Boston to introduce analysts andinvestors to the firm's new chief executive officer, MichaelMargolis.
Margolis replaced retiring CEO Allan Toomer in February.Among the issues on which Margolis was queried by investors wasTekelec's second quarter book-to-bill ratio, a figure that comparesthe dollar amount of new orders coming in to existing ordersshipped over a given period.
A ratio of 1 means that the amountsare equal and implies a steady stream of business.Several analysts have predicted the company's book-to-bill ratiowill drop below 1 for the quarter, though Tekelec has said itshould go down no further than 0.9.
That would mean Tekelec is notgetting as many new orders as it's currently filling.Kevin Slocum, an analyst at SoundView Financial Group, said heblamed his own comments in part on Tekelec's Thursday dip.
In adaily report published by First Call Corp. and distributed toanalysts and investors, Slocum said some investors were disturbedby the company's likely ratio.
But in an interview Thursdayafternoon, Slocum said he personally is unconcerned by the figure.Tekelec manufactures and services diagnostic testing equipmentfor large computer networks, and network switching equipment usedin the telecommunications industry.
The company had 1997 revenuesof $125.2 million and has, as of Thursday's close, a marketcapitalization of $1.08 billion.
It was like listening to a TV evangelist.
Let industry standardsinto your life, the preacher says, and they'll guide you todeliverance (not to mention big revenues).Microsoft held a Hollywood-style party Tuesday night nearLincoln Center to preview the next version of its Office suite,called Office 2000.
(Obviously, it isn't coming out any time soon.
)Office, in case you don't know, is the software package thatincludes Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint.
All will be integratedso closely with the Web, they'll make Kentucky cousins look likedistinct family lines.For example, you'll be able to drag elements of a database andspreadsheet into a Word document and save the finished product inHTML (the language of the Web) directly to your company's Intranet.And that's not all.
Because the applications are linked, when youupdate information in the original document, it also updatesautomatically on the Web page.PowerPoint, which is used to create slide shows, is perhaps themost insidious piece of software ever written.
Anyone who has hadto sit through a PowerPoint presentation knows what I mean.
There'sa slide on the wall, and the guy with the microphone repeats theinformation on the slide.
This goes on for 20 or 30 slides.
Thenthey give you a hard copy of the slide show to take home with you.Anyway, it's going to be easier to use.
For instance, the sizeof the type automatically will adjust to fit the screen as you addinformation to a slide.You have to tip your hat to Jean-Louis Gassee.
The formerpresident of Apple's product division is still out there on theshow floor, flogging his company, Be Inc. At first, Be was analternate PC-maker with its own operating system.
That didn't work.Then, Gassee reportedly almost sold Be to Apple when it was fishingaround for a new OS for the Macintosh.
But Apple bought Steve Jobs'NeXT instead.Be actually could have a chance in this new multimedia niche,especially because the latest version of the Be OS works withIntel-based computers.
(In the past, it was designed only forPowerPC chips.)
You can download the Intel-compatible version ofthe Be OS directly from Be's Web site (www.be.com).
It costs $79.Investors apparently like Be's prospects, as evidenced by the$24.4 million that Gassee raised in financing during the firstquarter of this year.Gassee admitted that he should have tied his flag to Intel yearsago.
But I guess that's hard for an ex-Apple guy to do.Earlier this month, NBC announced a similar but smaller deal,acquiring a 5 percent stake in San Francisco's Cnet with the ideaof eventually taking over its fledgling Web directory service,called Snap.Under terms of yesterday's agreement, Disney will receive 25.8million shares of newly issued Infoseek stock in return for $70million in cash plus ownership of Starwave, a Disney subsidiarythat creates and manages Web sites for other companies.Disney also will plunk down $139 million for warrants that willenable it to amass a majority interest in Infoseek over the nextthree years.
In the meantime, Disney will get three out of eightseats on Infoseek's board of directors.As part of the deal, Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million inpromotional support from Disney over the next five years.News of the agreement, which had been rumored since the start ofthis week, caused Internet stocks to surge in early trading.
But byday's end, concerns over the structure of the deal had damped downthe enthusiasm of investors.
Infoseek closed just 63 cents higherat $35.13, while Disney fell $2.30 to $112.Analyst Keith Benjamin of San Francisco's Robertson Stephenssaid the expenses associated with the deal, including the $165million, will probably mean that Infoseek, which has never posted aprofit, won't make money until 2001.Disney and Infoseek officials said they will launch a portalservice later this year combining Starwave's technology with thebest from their existing services.
The site, which will retain theInfoseek name, will feature ABC.com, ABCNEWS.com, Disney.com,ESPN.com and the official sites of the National Football League,the National Basketball Association and NASCAR.Infoseek is the third most popular search and directory servicebehind Excite and top-ranked Yahoo.
With Disney on board, Infoseekofficials hope to improve that position.One potential problem for Infoseek is that yesterday's agreementdoes not give it exclusive rights to Disney content.
Disney alsoprovides material to other sites, including Excite and AmericaOnline.Infoseek said it will buy up the 3.1 million shares of Starwavenot owned by Disney, giving it complete control of the privatelyowned Bellevue, Wash., company formerly controlled by Microsoftfounder Paul Allen.The satellite, originally called Asiasat 3, was launched lastDecember to provide television and telephone service in Asia.
Butthe Russian-built launcher malfunctioned, leaving the satellite inan unusable orbit.
The satellite was declared a loss, and itsowner, a company based in Hong Kong, received a $200 millioninsurance settlement.Hughes took possession of what looked to be an expensive pieceof space junk.
In April it began the seemingly improbably salvagemission to send the satellite around the Moon, some 240,000 milesaway, and back to an Earth orbit.The idea was to have the Moon's gravity provide some of theenergy needed to correct the satellite's orbit, which was inclinedat 51 degrees to the Equator.
An ideal orbit would be directly overthe Equator.In fact, Hughes ended up sending the satellite around the Moon asecond time, something it had not initially planned, to achieve aneven finer correction in the orbit.On Wednesday the satellite entered a geosynchronous orbit,22,300 miles above Earth.
At that altitude, a satellite orbitsEarth at the same speed that the planet rotates.
Thus it appears tohover over a single spot in the sky, making it easy to communicatewith antennas on Earth.The orbit is still slightly inclined to the Equator, however.Hughes will be able to keep the satellite at a fixed longitude but,when viewed from Earth, it will drift a few degrees north and southof the Equator every day.Because it is not perfectly stationary in the sky, the satellitecannot be used for certain jobs, such as directly broadcastingtelevision signals to small home dishes.
So Hughes will now faceanother challenge: finding a customer or customers to lease or buythe satellite.
The original customer will not take it back.Skidmore said Hughes had received many inquiries.
He said manysatellite users, like ships and cable television companies, haveantennas that can track a satellite as it moves in the sky.The satellite, which is now parked over the Pacific Ocean, hasenough fuel left to move to a designated longitude and to operatefor 10 to 15 years, Skidmore said.
Hughes will split any proceedswith the insurance companies that paid off the initial loss.Renee Gentry, an analyst with the Teal Group, an aerospaceconsulting firm in Fairfax, Va., said that although there is astrong demand for new satellites, most big companies have their ownsatellites ordered or in use.Then look no further than the next blue-chip professionalservices concern that wants to go public before the punch bowl getstaken away.Korn/Ferry International, the formidable head-hunting firm basedin Los Angeles, is expected to file for an initial public stockoffering sometime this year, a source close to the company says.If the company follows through, the headhunter's IPO would flashyet another signal that the suits on Wall Street are starting tobelieve the stock market has reached its peak.
And that means it'stime for Korn/Ferry's partners to cash in some of their equity.They seem to be saying that the never-say-die bull-run of the '90sfinally may be losing steam (as if Monday's 207-point drop in theDow Jones industrial average wasn't portentous enough to remindthem).Of course, Goldman Sachs' recent decision to go public is widelyviewed as an omen that all good things must (and probably will)come to an end.After all, when the nation's most prestigious investment bankersdecide that it's time to cash out while the getting is still good,who's to doubt them?
They are the pros from Dover, who have advisedscores of corporations across the globe on how and when to raisemountains of dough in the public market.What's more, a Korn/Ferry IPO would come on the heels of aninitial stock offering by one of its foremost executive-searchcompetitors, Heidrick Struggles of Chicago.
Heidrick reportedlyplans to allow its partners to cash in some of their chips byselling a minority stake to the public in the fall.And who is likely to underwrite the Heidrick offering?
WhyGoldman, of course.
(Telephone calls to Heidrick executives werenot returned.
)To be sure, investors may have good reason to take stock in thenation's largest executive-search firm.
The 29-year-old companyracked up $313 million in revenues in the fiscal year ended April30.
It boasts a client list of 3,000 companies that are served by70 offices worldwide, and the firm employs more than 1,300 people.Yup.
Internet.
The magic word in the investment world.
And we'renot talking some kind of would-be Zapata here.
Korn/ Ferry hasteamed with Dow Jones' Wall Street Journal to form Futurestep, anInternet-based executive-search service geared toward mid-sizedcompanies.In fact, much of the incentive for a public offering is beingdriven by Korn/Ferry's desire to raise money to fund Futurestep.Korn/ Ferry has a majority stake in the startup, which isheadquartered in the L.A. suburb of Sherman Oaks.Dow Jones isn't pumping any of its own capital into the ventureand doesn't have an equity stake.
But its partnership with Korn/Ferry allows Wall Street Journal advertisers exclusive access tovarious Futurestep services, such as job-candidate screening andresponding to job applicants.
In turn, Korn/Ferry gets access tothe Journal's hefty classified-ad base.Question is, will Web-obsessed investors still be lured by theInternet sizzle if the IPO market starts to chill?On the day that search engine also-ran Infoseek sold a heftystake to the Mouse (Walt Disney), leading search engine Yahooreported to the Securities and Exchange Commission that it plans totake a $45 million charge during the second quarter.Hats off to Bebe chief executive Manny Moushouf.
After beingpriced at $11 a share, his company's newly minted public sharesclosed their first day of trading Wednesday at more than $13.
Andthe Brisbane clothing retailer kept its momentum yesterday, inchingup another 31 cents a share amid tepid waters for new offerings.
Mark Veverka can be reached by mail at The Chronicle, 901 MissionSt., San Francisco 94103, by phone at (415) 777-8444 or by e-mailat mveverka(at sign)sfgate.com.
EDS.
NOTE: The Boston Globe is planning to move a spot newsstory on the columnist and the last column by Patricia Smith foruse by New York Times News Service clients.
For questions, callFrank Perrotta at the Globe, (617) 929-2597. c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO John Daly was asked about one particular shot onthe fourth hole, out of the rough, which according to U.S. Openrules, or at least to sadistic tradition, must be deep enough tohide a Buick.
He chopped at the undergrowth like a man cuttingsugar cane and wound up leaving his ball pin-high on the green foran easy par.Martin, of course, is the disabled golfer who has become thecause celebre for handicapped athletes and citizens from all walksof life for his legal duel with the PGA Tour for the right to use agolf cart in tournaments.So much of the first-day carnival at the Olympic Club hadentered on Martin, who had qualified for the 98th U.S. Open bywinning a regional playoff and teed off late in the afternoonfollowed by a large gallery of well-wishers and the kind of mediahorde that usually trails the scent of presidential scandal.A dispute with the U.S.
Golf Association over the size of thecart he would be permitted to use had been resolved and now so muchof the golfing world wanted to watch the gritty young man with therare circulatory disorder in his right leg, which makes walkingextremely painful, take his own kind of giant steps into battle.But there are handicaps and there are handicaps, and severalhours earlier, it was Daly, who has wrestled with his own share ofadversity, rolling in a par putt on No.
18 to finish at 1 under fora first round that was stunning from several perspectives.First, this is a course that requires accuracy far more thanbrute strength and the grip-it-and-rip-it Daly toured the groundswithout even carrying a driver in his bag.
Second, it was just ayear ago at Congressional Country Club for the 97th Open that anangry, troubled Daly stalked off the course in the middle of thesecond round, leaving his playing partners wondering what hadhappened and eventually wound up making a return trip to the BettyFord Clinic.It was the latest chapter in the peaks-and-valleys saga of Daly,who burst onto the scene by winning the 1991 PGA Championship atCrooked Stick in Indiana, won the British Open in 1995 and becameone of the most popular figures in the game all while fighting along-running battle with alcohol.The big, powerful swing, the awesome club-head speed and thelong drives are one reason that Daly quickly became so popular withMiddle America.
But maybe another reason is that he reallyrepresents Middle America more than all of those prettyflat-bellied boys who win golf tournaments.
Here is Daly, with anexpanding waistline and a golf bag full of personal demons, whodoesn't look as though the world is sitting there on a silver trayfor him.So the strongman played the round with a 3-wood instead of hisdriver.
He stayed within the fairways and within himself.
He didn'tcrack under the weight of three bogeys on the front nine.
Hegathered himself to shoot 32 on the back nine.
Just as he didn'tcrack back in March when he posted an 18 on one hole at The PlayersChampionship.Daly's 69 was his lowest first-round score in nine trips to thethe Open, and he finds himself right in the hunt.
Which is onlyappropriate, since the main road that brings you to the OlympicClub is John Daly Boulevard and the town of Daly City is just a,well, John Daly tee shot over the horizon.The deal which probably will involve the issuance ofCornerstone securities to Wilson's owners is expected to besealed over the weekend and officially announced early next week.The lion's share of the proceeds will go to principal owner andfounder Bill Wilson, a Stanford graduate whose real-estateassociates have included the Rockefeller family, Yale University,pension funds and various private partnerships.It owns more than 11 million square feet of office spacethroughout California, including substantial holdings in SanFrancisco and on the Peninsula.
It also has properties in thePacific Northwest.The firm built the architecturally striking Oracle Corp.headquarters complex in Redwood Shores and owns a building occupiedby Gap Inc. in San Mateo.
It also owns San Mateo's Borel OfficeCenter, a multitenant, four-building complex.Last year, it bought the Equitable Life Building at 120Montgomery St. in San Francisco in a deal reportedly worth $70 million.Wilson and Cornerstone which also owns about 11 million squarefeet of office space combined with Gap Chairman Donald Fisherthis year in an unsuccessful bid for San Francisco's 3.76million-square-foot Embarcadero Center.Sources said Cornerstone, which specializes in office propertiesin prime metropolitan areas, views Wilson as a more-than-acceptableconsolation prize in its effort to establish a major foothold inthe booming Bay Area office market.For Bill Wilson, now is the ideal time to sell, says James F.Wilson (no relation), an analyst with Jefferies Co. in SanFrancisco.A columnist at the Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this yearand the newspaper has asked for her resignation, the Globeannounced Thursday.In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a womandying of cancer, the newspaper said.Ms.
Smith did not return messages left on her voice mail at workand her home telephone was out of service.
Her attorney, IkeWilliams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not returnvoice mail messages.This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that hercredibility has come under fire.
As an editorial assistant at theChicago Sun Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of aconcert that she had not attended.
The newspaper ran a correctionbut she was not dismissed.The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after the NewRepublic published the results of an investigation into the work ofStephen Glass, one of its staff writers, whom it said hadfabricated parts or all of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote in twoand a half years.The Globe, which is owned by the New York Times Co., saidFriday's paper would also include a news article about theincident.The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeksago in the normal course of monitoring by senior editors.
Under themonitoring system, which Storin said he established two and a halfyears ago, editors occasionally double check columnists' sources.Richard Gulla, a spokesman for the Globe, said he did not knowwhether other people in that article, such as Ms. Gibson's daughterCarolyn were fabricated.Ms.
Smith also acknowledged making up Jim Burke, a workererecting barricades at the marathon, in her column of April 20th;and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name, thesubject of an entire poignant column about a woman with cancer,published on May 11.Ms.
Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at theChicago Daily News, joined the Globe in 1990.
She has been writinga column for the Metro/Region section since 1994.
Earlier thisyear, she won an award from the American Society of NewspaperEditors for a series of her columns published in 1997.
She was alsonominated for a Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year.
A poet,she has been widely recognized in the Boston arts community for herpublic readings.The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after beingquestioned by Moore.
Storin said the Globe initially had questionsabout six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted to fabrications infour of them.In a noontime meeting Thursday, Storin and Taylor told the newsstaff of their request for Ms. Smith's resignation.A columnist at the Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this yearand the newspaper has asked for her resignation, the Globeannounced Thursday.In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a womandying of cancer, the newspaper said.Ms.
Smith did not return messages left on her voice mail at workand her home telephone was out of service.
Her attorney, IkeWilliams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not returnvoice mail messages.This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that hercredibility has come under fire.
As an editorial assistant at theChicago Sun Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of aconcert that she had not attended.
The newspaper ran a correctionbut she was not dismissed.The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after the NewRepublic published the results of an investigation into the work ofStephen Glass, one of its staff writers, whom it said hadfabricated parts or all of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote in twoand a half years.The Globe, which is owned by the New York Times Co., saidFriday's paper would also include a news article about theincident.The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeksago in the normal course of monitoring by senior editors.
Under themonitoring system, which Storin said he established two and a halfyears ago, editors occasionally double check columnists' sources.Richard Gulla, a spokesman for the Globe, said he did not knowwhether other people in that article, such as Ms. Gibson's daughterCarolyn were fabricated.Ms.
Smith also acknowledged making up Jim Burke, a workererecting barricades at the marathon, in her column of April 20th;and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name, thesubject of an entire poignant column about a woman with cancer,published on May 11.Ms.
Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at theChicago Daily News, joined the Globe in 1990.
She has been writinga column for the Metro/Region section since 1994.
Earlier thisyear, she won an award from the American Society of NewspaperEditors for a series of her columns published in 1997.
She was alsonominated for a Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year.
A poet,she has been widely recognized in the Boston arts community for herpublic readings.The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after beingquestioned by Moore.
Storin said the Globe initially had questionsabout six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted to fabrications infour of them.In a noontime meeting Thursday, Storin and Taylor told the newsstaff of their request for Ms. Smith's resignation.TOKYO The South Korean government officially decreed 55troubled companies nonviable Thursday, signaling their likelydemise in hopes of accelerating the revamping of the economy andailing financial system.To some critics, the list also closely resembled theheavy-handed tactics used by governments past to guide the economy.Those tactics are also blamed for creating the mountain of debt andsystem of crony capitalism that has contributed to South Korea'sproblems.The list was compiled with the assistance of South Korea'sdebt-laden banks after a review of 313 troubled companies.
It isaimed at restoring health to the financial system and acceleratingthe reorganization in the country's heavily leveraged corporatesector, which has been slow to pursue change.The list includes 20 companies that are part of the country'sfive largest chaebol Samsung group, LG group, Hyundai group,Daewoo group and SK group.
The commission sent an earlier list backto the banks because it did not include chaebol subsidiaries.But only one of the Big Five affiliates on the list HyundaiLivart Co., a furniture manufacturer is listed on the Koreanstock exchange.
The ax will fall largely on small, virtuallyunknown subsidiaries.Lee of the supervisory commission said companies on the list hadlittle chance of survival because banks and affiliates cannot lendthem money.
However, the companies can sell off most of theirassets to survive or can seek merger partners.
They also can seekbankruptcy court protection, although banks are highly unlikely toagree to such conditions.The list includes 10 publicly traded companies, and their sharestumbled before the official announcement was made.
The Korea stockexchange suspended their shares after the announcement, includingKorea Tungsten, Haitai Stores, Haitai Electronics, HaitaiConfectionery, Hanil Synthetic Fiber, Dai Han Wool Textile, TongKook General Electronics, Shinho Electric and Communications andYoung Jin Co.Under the leadership of the new president, Kim Dae-jung, thegovernment has promised to allow market forces to steer theeconomy, but the commission's list, dictating the life and death ofscores of companies, seemed to contradict that commitment.There were some notable absences from the group marked forextinction.
Samsung Motors, a new car manufacturing unit of theSamsung group, for instance, is clearly not financially viable atthe moment.Launched this spring after the Asian financial crisis turned theSouth Korean economic miracle into a bust, the car company cost$4.8 billion to put together and must compete with alreadyestablished contenders like Hyundai, Daewoo and bankrupt Kia Motorsin a domestic market now less than half the size of a year ago.Planning to produce just 80,000 cars this year, the company is noteven close to breaking even.The aim of the big deal is to push the chaebol intoconsolidation by forcing them to swap businesses with each other.Hyundai Motors, for example, could adopt Samsung Motors in exchangefor its semiconductor business, which could be absorbed by SamsungElectronics, one of the world's largest makers of semiconductors.Lee, the commission's chairman, said the top five conglomerateswere to come up with revised business plans by the end of July thatwould hopefully involve such deals.Bankers said the list issued Thursday was problematic for thosechaebol that have already begun efforts to sell subsidiaries nowfingered for extermination.
The Hanwha group would have liked toput all or part of the Otron Co., a mobile telephone handsetmanufacturer that is on the list, on the block, but now anydisposal would probably be a fire sale.The list also is likely to worsen unemployment, which hasalready hit more than 1.5 million people this year.
While severalchaebol said Thursday that they would try to find jobs for workersfrom companies on the list, it will be hard to absorb all of them.HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. For more than a decade, MichaelLaudor had wrestled with the demons of schizophrenia, managing toeke out startling victories over the delusions and hallucinations,like a degree from Yale Law School and more than $2.1 million inbook and movie contracts for his life story.But Thursday the disease seemed to have snatched its own brutalvictory.
Laudor was charged with the murder of his 37-year-oldpregnant fiancee, Caroline Costello, a technology administrator atthe Edison Project, the private firm that manages public schools.Wednesday, her body, with more than 10 stab wounds in the backand neck, had been found in the kitchen of the apartment theyshared on the banks of the Hudson in this suburban village, whichhad not seen a murder in 20 years.A short time before the body was found, Laudor's mother, Ruth,concerned about a conversation she had had with her son, had calledpolice and asked them to check on the welfare of her son and Ms.Costello in the apartment.Laudor, 35, was arrested at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.,a place where, as a teen-ager, he had taken a summer program forgifted students.
For inexplicable reasons, he had fled to Cornellon Wednesday afternoon, driving Ms. Costello's black Honda toBinghamton and then catching the 10:15 p.m. Shortline bus toIthaca.At Cornell, he flagged down a patrol car and told an officerthat he had hurt his girlfriend and possibly killed her, saidSimeon Moss, director of the Cornell News Service.Taken into custody, he was alternately calm and agitated and, atone point, struck a Cornell police officer, who was be treated at alocal hospital.Thursday afternoon, Laudor, a tall, husky, bearded six-footerdressed in a blue Ithaca City Jail jumpsuit and bedroom slippers,was returned to the Hastings police station, next door to where helived and visible from his balcony.
There, he was formally chargedwith Ms. Costello's murder.
He had no prior record for violence.Friends spoke of two setbacks that seemed to weaken him in hisfight against schizophrenia.
In 1995, his father, Charles Laudor,an Adelphi economics professor who often talked him through thehallucinations and was a stabilizing influence in his life, died ofprostate cancer.
In recent months, the antipsychotic medications hehad been taking no longer worked as well and doctors struggledfutilely to find the right prescription.As a result of his recurring mental illness, he was withdrawnand depressed and making little progress in writing the life storyon which the lucrative movie was going to be based, friends saidThursday.
They said they believed that the pressure of writing,even as he was unable to land a job as a law professor, contributedto his decline.Advocates for the mentally ill tried Thursday to ward off anypublic conclusions that people with schizophrenia needed to befeared.Laurie Flynn, executive director of the National Alliance forthe Mentally Ill in Washington, said that dramatic shifts inbehavior occurred when people stopped taking their medication.Sometime in the morning or early afternoon, Laudor had alsospoken by telephone to his mother, who lives in New Rochelle.Something in the conversation apparently disturbed Mrs. Laudorbecause at about 4:20 p.m., in what the police described as adistraught voice, she called the Hastings police station to letthem know of her conversation with her son.Police found the body and decided to go directly to the mother'sNew Rochelle home to inform her.
Schiavone said that it was clearto the mother that it was her son who had killed Ms. Costello.Thursday afternoon, Ms. Costello's parents, William and Marilyn,flew in from Newton, Mass., where she grew up, to identify her bodyand talk to investigators.It was after college while working for a management consultantfirm that he experienced his first brush with illness.
Hecomplained that his phones were tapped.
Later, he began to hearbells in the night and to imagine that his room was in flames.Randy Banner, a journalist who is a friend of the Laudor family,said that Michael's father would talk him down from hishallucinations, asking him, for example, to place his hands in theflame that he imagined.His father helped him through Yale Law School, where heperformed so brilliantly he was awarded a postdoctoralassociateship.
He also saw himself as a role model for the mentallyill, and in the Times interview expressed his displeasure with whathe said were stereotypes of schizophrenics as violent.You see the reaction again and again when driving Volvo's newC70 coupe.
When you double-park at the dry cleaners, pull into aparking garage, approach a toll booth, people glance quickly, thendo a double-take.
They are puzzled.Instinctively, they know the C70 is a Volvo; the rectangulargrille with its diagonal slash mark could belong to nothing else.But the lines are sleek and clean, so the C70 genuinely looks likea car and not, as Volvos have for ages, like the box the car camein.And then they have me stumped.
For while the C70 is eye-catchingand elegant and its turbo-charged engine serves up some seriousfun, it is not particularly enjoyable to drive.
It lacks the sharpreflexes of a BMW 328is, the rock-of-ages rigidity of a MercedesCLK320 or the fist-in-a-velvet-glove control of the Lexus SC 300.The Volvo's combination of high power and front-wheel driveresults as is often the case in twitchy road manners unbecominga serious driver's car.
And with aggressive, low-profile tires onbig 18-inch wheels, the test car's rough-and-tumble ride did notmeasure up to luxury-car standards.The C70 is testament to the competitive pressures faced byrelatively small, independent auto makers like Volvo at a time whenVolkswagen has built a lineup from Skodas to Silver Seraphs, whenDaimler-Benz gazed into the future and decided to get there now bymerging with Chrysler.To thrive, Volvo must broaden its lineup, but it lacks a parentwith the deep pockets needed to develop an array of car platforms.So it has pinned its future on three basic front-wheel-driveplatforms the compact 40 series, which arrives in fall 1999; themidsize 70 series, formerly known as the 850, and a new flagship,the 80 series, which goes on sale in October.For the C70, a low-volume car that marks Volvo's first,tentative steps to move its image up the scale, it borrowed thestructure of its S70 family sedan.
Volvo asked Tom WalkinshawRacing, a British specialty company, to infuse the workadayplatform with sporting character.The results are mixed: While the C70 holds its own in tracktesting against similarly priced rivals, excelling at accelerationand road-holding tests, it can feel unpolished on real-worldbyways.
Inoffensive if not impressive on smooth roads, the C70 isharsh and jumpy on rough patches.The steering wheel does not send back much road feel, though thesteering effort is heavy.
Nor does the wheel want to return to aneutral center without some prodding.
While a rear-drive BMW gripscorners as if it had claws, the front-drive Volvo is inclined toplow ahead on turns.It is, in all, a car that is difficult to drive smoothly.
Abalky five-speed manual transmission adds to the hijinks.
WhileVolvo should be applauded for offering a stick shift Mercedesdoes not the C70 is one of the few cars I'd prefer with anautomatic.Either transmission plays second fiddle to the C70's mainattribute, a turbo-charged screamer of an engine.
Shared withVolvo's sportiest sedan, the S70 T5, the sideways-mounted in-linefive cylinder behaves innocuously most of the time.
But a kick ofthe accelerator rockets the car ahead like the starship Enterpriseengaging warp speed.The horsepower rating is deceptively modest, just 236, but theengine reaches peak torque, 243 foot-pounds, at just 2,700 rpm.
Ifa tailgate terrorist bears down from behind, the C70 can leave himin the dust listening to the turbo's throaty roar.You pay a price for such maneuvers.
There is a hint of turbolag, a brief, disconcerting pause before the car shoots ahead, andtorque steer, in which the rush of power tugs the driving wheelsfrom side to side.Yet the cabin offers delights along with irritations.
Thetwo-tone leather is gorgeous, but the black-stained walnut trim israther gloomy.
The firm seats, with big side bolsters they alsohouse the side-impact air bags are sporty, butlarger-than-average drivers may find them confining.And my biggest gripe about the C70 is a serious lack of legroom,a deficiency not apparent in the specifications but one alsonoticed by two other 6-foot-1 men who sat behind the wheel.The head restraints, however, are exemplary perhaps the beston any car.
High and close to the head, they should help preventwhiplash injuries even for tall drivers, and they are comfortableto boot.The C70 does have some agreeable amenities.
The steering wheeltilts and telescopes.
The Dolby Surround Sound stereo, $595 on topof the not-so-basic standard system (400-watt amplifier, 10speakers and a handy, three-disk, in-dash CD changer), iselectrifying comparable with the terrific Bose system in the newCadillac Seville.
But the Volvo unit includes a strange-lookingspeaker that protrudes above the dash.The shift knob is polished wood, but the automatic-transmissionversion is ringed with plastic, and that is what your hand feels.The door pockets are too shallow to be useful, and the console boxunder the center armrest is just big enough for a couple of CDcases.
And the armrest/storage lid also houses what may be theworld's dumbest cup holder: It slides out to hold two mediumcontainers, but should you lift the lid to reach into the box, yourbeverage spills onto the passenger.More thought has gone into the instruments.
Markings on the fuelgauge tell how many gallons of gas remain.
The trip computer is awonder of simplicity, with various readouts displayed at the twistof a dial.And what's this?
Instead of the digital mumbo-jumbo, electronicslide-rules and up-down buttons that have spread like kudzu throughcars, Volvo has come up with a wonderful invention for tuning theradio, adjusting the volume and setting the temperature.
It iscalled a knob, and drivers who would rather watch the road thangrope for tiny buttons will find it refreshingly retro.As for safety, there are front and rear fog lights, daytimerunning lights and headlamp washer/wipers.
But if the car isn'tstarted after the doors are unlocked, ostensibly within twominutes, they re-lock.A colleague discovered this after tossing keys, purse and moneyon the seat, closing the door and walking around the car in wellunder two minutes, she insists.
Locked out and angry, she waitedfor a locksmith and wondered what she would have done if a childhad been confined inside.Configured for four occupants there is a mini-console betweenthe rear foot wells this coupe treats rear passengers prettywell.
The biggest problem with the back seat is the front seats you need two hands to tilt the heavy, clunky seatbacks.
To move theentire seat forward, you pull up on the latch and hold it for whatseems like ages, since the motorized seat is painfully slow.So is the C70 worth the price?
My test drive followed time inthe CLK and a couple of BMWs, and the C70 suffered in comparison interms of ride, handling and comfort.Volvo's coupe inhabits an uncomfortable niche between sport andluxury, and it comes off as neither flounder nor pheasant: frontdrive inhibits the aggressive engine and the body structure seemsoddly unrefined.
The car's luxury pretensions are undercut by ajumpy rough-road ride.After driving a car so costly, I'm usually sad to see it go.
ButI walked away from the C70, admired the sweep of its sheet metalone last time, and never looked back.
A C70 convertible will go on sale early next month at a priceestimated at $44,000.
Options will push fully equipped models closeto $50,000, where the C70 will compete with the Mercedes CLK320Cabriolet, which arrives in the fall.The C70 is Volvo's first convertible since the plastic-bodyVolvo Sport of 1956, and it is a stylish showcase for a companytrying to break out of its safe, staid box.The top goes up or down at the push of a button, with no latchesto release or covers to snap in place.
Touching another buttonlowers all four windows simultaneously.Like the coupe, the convertible is elegantly appointed thetest car had unusual, but pleasing, suede-like seat inserts butfront legroom is glaringly short.
The back seat was a revelation,though, with plenty of room for two adults whether the top was upor down.Twin roll bars pop up behind the rear head restraints if asensor detects that the car may roll over.
But the mechanics forthe roll bars and the elaborate power top steal much of the trunkspace.While the C70 convertible looks like the coupe, it uses the lesspowerful 2.4-liter five-cylinder from the S70 GLT.
With alight-pressure turbo-charger, it pumps out 190 horsepower, 46 lessthan the coupe.The soft-top comes only with a four-speed automatictransmission, and its standard tires and wheels are smaller,16-inch versions.
With less power and an extra 250 pounds ofreinforcement, the convertible does not have the coupe'sneck-snapping takeoff.The test car had no rattles or squeaks, but slight vibrationscould be felt through the floor pan, doors and steering wheel, andthe suspension was bouncy.
Quick stops caused awkward shudders.While the C70 coupe can't figure out whether it's a lady or ascamp, the convertible doesn't pretend to be a sports machine.
It'san upscale, head-turning cruiser an impress-the-neighborsalternative to the Chrysler Sebring.
Alas, you can have twoSebrings for the tab of one C70.
NEW YORK Chinese authorities in Shanghai on Thursday detainedthe shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera thatis scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln CenterFestival, threatening to disrupt the New York event and start aninternational incident.When the criticisms first emerged this week, Lincoln Centerinformally asked the State Department and the U.S. InformationAgency to follow the situation.
After Thursday's action, in whichthe Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Culture refused permission forsets from the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Company to leave the airport,the State Department intervened.At the same time, Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of LincolnCenter, sought help from Henry Kissinger, the former secretary ofstate, who is a friend of hers.
Because the production is scheduledto move on to the Festival d'Automne in Paris in November, theFrench Foreign Ministry has also become involved.An American official who spoke on the condition of anonymitysaid that it was not clear whether the Chinese government, which ispreparing for a visit by President Clinton next week, had playedany part in the matter.The shipment in question, consisting of all the sets, props andcostumes for the production, was ostensibly held back for aninspection of the contents, according to Lincoln Center officials.The authorities allowed the containers to be reclosed, Reddensaid, adding that he hoped they would be shipped on the nextavailable flight, on Sunday.
But he said the authorities still hadobjections to the production that could pose further problems.For months, cigarette-industry executives have said they wouldrather fight every lawsuit filed against them than support federallegislation like the $516 billion tobacco bill introduced by Sen.John McCain of Arizona.
With the scuttling of the McCain bill onWednesday, they are now likely to get plenty of practice.Today, over 800 lawsuits are pending against tobacco companies,a figure that represents a quadrupling of the number of such casesin just three years.
And along with health-related cases brought byindividual smokers, new groups of claimants ranging fromofficials of states and cities to insurers and union health plansto Indian tribes have also jumped into the legal chase.Some legal experts believe that many of these cases willdisappear or fail because they were filed simply to be in aposition to cash in on a potential congressional settlement oftobacco litigation.
And officials of tobacco companies, which havebeen largely unscathed in court, say they are confident they willcontinue to prevail.But the rapidly accelerating pace of lawsuits is also producinga high-speed game of legal Russian roulette for those companies.And every courtroom wound suffered by the industry, like a recent$1 million verdict in Florida, is likely to bring still morelawsuits, legal experts said.Robert Rabin, a professor at Stanford University School of Law,said he believed the industry had the resources to lose half of theindividual lawsuits brought against it as long as the number ofsuch cases annually ranged from 100 to 200 claims.
But Rabin saidhe foresees a litigation landslide if juries start giving out largepunitive-damage awards or if class-action claims like one set tobegin in Florida next month succeed.In the Florida case, producers face the first class-actionlawsuit ever brought to trial on behalf on smokers throughout astate claiming addiction or tobacco-related injuries.
And inSeptember, the industry faces another legal test when the trial ofa lawsuit brought by the attorney general of Washington state torecover Medicaid expenses begins.Joe Rice, a plaintiffs' lawyer from Charleston, S.C., whorepresents 29 states, said that he was only aware of court effortsto mediate state attorneys general lawsuits in Washington and NewYork.Tobacco-industry lawyers said that they are ready to take on allcomers.
And they add the industry's decision to pay out some $35billion over the past year to settle lawsuits brought by fourstates Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota did notreflect the weakness of their legal position, but rather the legalquirks of those cases and the industry's eagerness not to upsetmomentum for a national resolution.Little and other industry lawyers point to a number of recentvictories in which tobacco companies managed to have thrown outlawsuits brought by union health plans against them on proceduralgrounds or have some of the damage claims in lawsuits brought bystate attorneys general thrown out.But even some lawyers who have worked closely with the industrysaid tobacco makers now faced a new host of legal challengesbecause damaging industry documents had been recently disclosed aspart of those settlements and were already being put to use againstthe industry.Earlier this month, for example, a Florida jury, which revieweddocuments initially obtained by the state of Minnesota, orderedBrown Williamson Tobacco Co. to pay $1 million, including$500,000 in punitive damages, to the family of a man whose deathfrom cancer was blamed on cigarettes.
And lawyers handling theFlorida class-action claim are now battling in court to use theMinnesota records in their case.It was the desire to end legal uncertainty that led five majortobacco companies to pursue last June's $368.5 billion settlementproposal with state attorneys generals and class-action lawyers.That plan, under which producers agreed to restrict tobaccoadvertising and pay penalties if youth smoking did not fall,settled state lawsuits and barred class-action lawsuits and theawarding of punitive damages.Those provisions were critical because compensatory damages insmoking lawsuit, which have rarely been paid, were small.
But apunitive damage award, which is meant to punish a company, or theloss of a class-action case could produce significant financialdamage.Still, as the price tag of the June proposal grew in the Senate,cigarette producers saw the prospects of higher prices for theirproducts, lowered sales and the loss of lawsuit protections theyhad sought.Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, acompany that advises institutional investors on legal terms, saidshe is not surprised that producers have decided to take theirchances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewedcourtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general tojump-start their lawsuits against producers.
A large majority ofthe states involved in last June's plan were late in suingproducers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to wincongressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over thepast year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in alawsuit against a cigarette company.
Such a bill, which effectivelyallows a state to recover collectively rather than pressingindividual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was consideredinstrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billionsettlement with the industry last August.Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, saidthat while some states have lost ground waiting to see whatCongress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceedingactively.Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try andrestart settlement negotiations between the industry and some stateattorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks verypreliminary.Ms.
Aronson and other legal experts added that while theybelieved the industry could overcome many of the claims filedagainst it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers andunion health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the firsttime.
And while those actions might not initially succeed, thesuccess of one could open the door for others.In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and thesteady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs abouttobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.Aronson and others added.UNITED NATIONS The chief U.N. arms inspector for Iraq saidThursday that a plan for ending sanctions that he and the Iraqisagreed to last weekend would collapse if the Iraqis withhelddocuments or other evidence, something they threatened to do evenwhile the talks were in progress.The chief inspector, Richard Butler, sent a report to theSecurity Council Thursday that paints a much less optimisticpicture than he or Iraqi officials presented when the Baghdadmeetings ended on Sunday and it appeared that the Iraqis werewithin striking distance of the lifting of an oil-sales embargo.Thursday's report reveals that Iraq, while agreeing to somecooperation, is in fact attempting to block all investigations intoother crucial areas, including chemical and biological weaponry,and wants to defer discussions of other issues.In his report to the Security Council, Butler said that theIraqis had agreed to deal with a list of certain outstanding issuesby early August, including providing detailed information onmissile warheads, mustard gas shells and other weaponry, along withdocuments.
But they flatly refused to address questions aboutproduction of the deadly nerve agent VX.The leader of the Iraqi delegation to the talks, Deputy PrimeMinister Tariq Aziz, also told Butler that no more informationwould be provided on biological weapons, and demanded anothertechnical evaluation of biological issues by outsiders, notablyfrom Russia, France and China, who are the supporters of Iraq onthe Security Council.
That evaluation is scheduled to begin inBaghdad on July 11.Aziz also refused to discuss the issue of tons of missing rocketfuel or the government's concealment policies, which armsinspectors say were formulated systematically to confuse andmislead them.
And the Iraqis once again raised a demand thatAmerican U-2 aircraft stop flying over their territory.Officials familiar with the talks in Baghdad on June 13 and 14say that Iraq arrived with huge delegations and videotaped theproceedings, which at times appeared more staged than real.
Thegovernment of President Saddam Hussein, which is distributing thevideotapes to diplomats in Baghdad, apparently believes that thetapes will convince the world that the disarmament process hasreached its final chapter and that Butler's disarmament commissionhas already been sidelined.The next major sanctions review takes place in the SecurityCouncil in October, more than eight years after an embargo wasimposed following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
Iraq wants allsanctions lifted by the end of the year.
Diplomats here say that,at best, a ban on oil sales could end, but other trade restrictionswould remain in place.The Iraqis, who are becoming more and more open about theiralliance with the Russians, French and Chinese in efforts to endthe oil-sales embargo, left U.N. officials and diplomats meeting inBaghdad with the impression that Iraq thinks that it has enoughpolitical support in the Security Council to defer discussion onthe tough areas they have closed to inspectors for now.
SomeCouncil members have begun to talk about how 100 percent compliancemay not be possible in some cases.Diplomats say that Iraq, which has been skillfully plotting itsway out of sanctions for a year, seems to be counting additionallyon President Clinton's unwillingness to face any major crisis withIraq or to take military action in the fall, just before acongressional election.After the oil embargo is lifted, Iraq will fall under along-term monitoring system rather than active, intrusivedisarmament inspections with orders to search and destroy.
Althoughthe surveillance system set up in Iraq by the Special Commission,known as UNSCOM, would continue to operate though perhaps in adifferent form inspectors are concerned that without directSecurity Council oversight, Iraq will whittle down controls andfind it easier to defy requests for cooperation.Aziz refused to address the question of missing rocket fuel,saying it could be dealt with later under long-term monitoring.
Hesaid that accounting for missile engines and guidance systems wasnot necessary at this point.ARLINGTON, Texas The Oakland Athletics left 15 runners onbase.
They loaded the bases in three innings and failed to scoreeach time.That freak play, with two runs scoring on a wild-pitchstrikeout, and tough pitching in clutch situations allowed theRangers to salvage the final game of a disappointing homestand witha 3-2 victory against the Athletics yesterday at The Ballpark inArlington.The hard-fought victory, played in 3 hours, 20 minutes in99-degree heat and a whipping prairie wind, left the Rangers 2-5 onthe homestand.
They open a three-game series with thedivision-leading Anaheim Angels tonight on the West Coast.Six Rangers pitchers combined to allow nine hits, eight walksand one hit batter but limited the Athletics to 3-for-11 hittingwith runners in scoring position.
They didn't retire the side inorder until John Wetteland did so in the ninth to earn his 20thsave.Rangers starter Aaron Sele issued a career-high seven walks butbattled through 6 2/3 innings to get the victory, his 10th of theyear against four losses.
It's the earliest a Rangers pitcher haswon his 10th game in a season, and it ties him with Atlanta's GregMaddux for the major-league lead.Oakland starter Tom Candiotti, throwing a mean knuckleball, wasjust as tough in clutch situations.
Actually, he was too tough onthe key play of the game, both for Clark and Oakland rookie catcherA.J.
Hinch.It might have made a difference that Candiotti tangled withhome-plate umpire Ted Barrett while retrieving the dropped throw,because Greer barely slid in under Hinch's tag.Sele and the bullpen made that play hold up.
The Athletics puttogether three hits in the fourth to make it 3-2 but couldn't pulleven despite having nine base runners in the final five innings.In the first payoff from the state's new utility deregulationlaw, a Boston buying cooperative is expected to announce today thefirst large contract for commercial and municipal users to buyelectricity on the open market.National Energy Choice LLC, acting as a broker, said it hasletters of intent with several hundred users businesses;nonprofit organizations; cities and towns in Massachusetts andRhode Island to purchase electricity from Select Energy, theunregulated subsidiary of Hartford-based Northeast Utilities, thelargest utility in New England.The National Energy Choice program would officially start inJanuary 1999.
It would be available initially to businesses andorganizations, but not residential customers.
There are plans toexpand the program to residential customers after 2000, said PaulL.
Barrett, a National Energy Choice managing director.Customers who sign up for the four- or five-year program willpay about 5 percent less than what they pay utilities now, saidSteven M. Rothstein, managing director of National Energy Choice, acompany backed by Citizens Energy Corp.The agreement is similar to but potentially larger than anelectricity purchase agreement between the Massachusetts Health andEducational Facilities Authority and PECO Energy Co. ofPhiladelphia.Users that have signed letters of intent include movie theaters,hotels, associations representing Massachusetts municipalities,nursing homes, and newspapers, along with 30 school districts inRhode Island.He said for communities that spend $500,000 per year onelectricity, about 30 percent of that cost will be in electricgeneration.
Users will save 5 percent on the electric generationportion.
National Energy Choice will earn a monthly fee of 15percent to 24 percent of the money saved, said Barrett.Customers can also save an additional 5 to 7 percent if theypursue an optional energy efficiency program aimed at reducingelectrical consumption.For those savings, Select Energy will conduct an energy auditthat would recommend improvements in heating, ventilation, and airconditioning systems.
Customers could use Select Energy or othercompanies to perform the upgrades to qualify for the discount.NEW YORK Long viewed as one of the world's most attractivetargets for terrorists, New York City has quietly undertaken anambitious effort to counter attacks carried out with deadlychemicals or germs, according to city officials.The city is buying germ detectors, working out deals withregional hospitals for emergency care, striking unusual accordswith drug companies to make medicines quickly in an emergency andtaking steps to stockpile medications, officials say.Although no specific threat of a germ or chemical attack hasbeen detected recently, the city has undertaken an extensivetraining program since September, instructing about 4,000 citypolice officers and firefighters in how to handle such anemergency.
Next week, about 1,500 doctors and nurses in New Yorkare to be trained by outside medical experts.Emergency planners face bewildering problems in preparing todeal with germ attacks, the foremost being how to tell if suddenoutbreaks of illness are natural or purposeful.
Malicious strikesare hard to detect rapidly since deadly microbes might incubate inhuman bodies for hours, days, weeks or even months before causingwidespread havoc.Dealing with waves of sick or dying victims is a planner'snightmare, as is cleaning up contaminated areas and buildings.
Thespores of anthrax, one of the most common biological warfareagents, can live for centuries.Two months ago, city officials began monitoring patterns ofemergency hospitalization so that they can more swiftly determineif unconventional weapons are used to attack New York.
MayorRudolph Giuliani, officials say, has asked to be personallyinformed of any suspicious patterns of illness.Experts agree that skillful terrorists in theory could injure orkill thousands, if not millions, of people, but disagree on theexact dimensions of the threat.
Too little is known of that shadowyunderworld, they say.Federal and local officials have become increasingly worried inrecent years about the possibility of germ and chemical attacks.Nationally, the worries stem from American intelligence reportsabout terrorists planning attacks and such incidents as a religiouscult's assaults on Tokyo with nerve gas and germs.Locally, the danger from terrorists was driven home in 1993,when a terrorist bomb planted by Islamic militants exploded underthe World Trade Center, killing six people and injuring 1,000.Congress has provided about $100 million to support the trainingof local officials nationwide to cope with unconventional terroristattacks.
But the Pentagon said only 27 of the 120 cities in thatprogram had received assistance so far.
And many have yet toreceive equipment.In interviews, New York City officials said they were tornbetween reassuring the public by revealing the defensivepreparations and panicking people with doomsday scenarios that, inrecent attack studies and simulations, have easily overwhelmed thecity's existing defenses.A sizable part of the $17 million that New York has devoted toemergency preparations has been spent on dealing withunconventional threats from terrorists.
Five of the 50 people inthe city's Office of Emergency Management work full time on theproblem, officials said.City officials said Giuliani has been a driving force behind NewYork's heightened preparations.
The officials said the city'splanned $15 million crisis control center was described by theseofficials as a part of the city's emerging defenses.The city plans to have the ventilation system of the crisismanagement center near the World Trade Center adopt a defensivestrategy known as positive pressure, experts say.
This precautionkeeps a gentle breeze blowing outward whenever a door or window isopened, automatically helping to keep out dangerous germs orchemicals.The city's defenses are being organized by the Office ofEmergency Management.
Hauer is also a member of a small group ofscientists and public health officials who have been advisingPresident Clinton on germ warfare and civil defense.Until now, Hauer and other local officials have declined to bespecific about the city's preparations.
Some of the steps beingtaken and their motivation were outlined Tuesday by William Nagle,a deputy director of the Office of Emergency Planning, at aconference in Washington, which was sponsored by the PotomacInstitute for Policy Studies.The 4,000 members of the city's police and fire units who haveundergone military instruction of a day or more in how to deal withgerm and chemical attacks, he said, have been taught to fight theirinstincts in such an emergency.Hauer, the office's director, said the city had spent more than$1 million to buy two mobile emergency trailers filled withcontainment vessels of different sizes that can isolate dangerousgerms or chemicals, as well as equipment to respond to an attack.It has bought several hundred portable detectors to helpidentify the exact nature of an infectious strike within as littleas 10 minutes.
One type is as small as a matchbook; the other,known as an immunoassay, is a boxy gadget that uses an antibody todetect the presence of a dangerous germ.
New York is the first cityto acquire the latter, Hauer said.My daddy gave the newspaper a pulse.
He taught me to love itschanging canvas, its omnipotent eye, its infinite throat.
And sinceone long-ago tabloid featured his obituary, it is much too late toapologize to him for compromising that love.From time to time in my metro column, to create the desiredimpact or slam home a salient point, I attributed quotes to peoplewho didn't exist.
I could give them names, even occupations, but Icouldn't give them what they needed most a heartbeat.
As anyonewho's ever touched a newspaper knows, that's one of the cardinalsins of journalism: Thou shall not fabricate.
No exceptions.
Noexcuses.And yet there are always excuses.
Usually they point to thecursed fallibility of human beings, our tendency to spit in theface of common sense, zigging when the world says zag.
Sometimesexcuses reveal real or imagined inadequacies, or the belief thatthe world, if it is to be conquered, must be conqueredsinglehandedly.I've already heard from dozens of people in search of anofficial sound-byte, a hook upon which to hang the newly fallenwordsmith.
The (itals)reason.
(unitals)But I didn't establish priorities, and the first casualty wastime.
In Boston, my face was my column.
I wanted the pieces tojolt, to be talked about, to leave the reader indelibly impressed.And sometimes, as a result of trying to do too much at once andcutting corners, they didn't.
So I tweaked them to make sure theydid.
It didn't happen often, but it did happen.
And if it had onlyhappened once, that was one time too many.I will survive this knowing that the heart of my columns washonest and heartfelt.
None of the pieces considered for theAmerican Society of Newspaper Editors award or this year's PulitzerPrize were doctored in any way.
I will write as long as I breathe,despite the dire predictions that this indiscretion spells the endof my career.
In the course of living this flawed life, I'vestepped into the lives of remarkable people.
They will always livein me.So to the welders, the B-boys, the preachers, and the surgeons,to the grocery clerks and bartenders and single mothers, to thepoliticians, PR flacks, spokespersons and secretaries, to my dearhusband and family and friends, I am sorry for betraying yourtrust.
To the editors who supported and encouraged me, as well asthose who jumped ship when the mighty USS Smith began to take onwater, thanks for the lessons.
To those colleagues and readers whosalivated daily at the thought of my head on a platter, congrats.And to the hundreds of real people who honored me with their timeand stories, you are my salvation and I will hold you tight duringthis trial.To every single reader, young and old, black and white, whoopened their papers on Monday and Friday and trusted me to betruth, know this: You were the truth all along.Finally, I'd like to apologize to the memory of my father, OtisDouglas Smith.
He burns in my soul through this, and beyond this.Boston Globe editor Matthew V. Storin Thursday asked for andreceived the resignation of award-winning Metro columnist PatriciaSmith after the paper identified four 1998 columns in which Smithacknowledged fabricating some characters and quotations.Smith, who arrived at the Globe in 1990 and began writing herMetro column in 1994, won this year's American Society of NewspaperEditors Distinguished Writing Award for commentary and columnwriting.
In April, she was named a Pulitzer Prize finalist in thecommentary category.
She frequently wrote passionately about racialissues and was a lightning rod for reader approval and criticism.Storin said Smith acknowledged the other fabricated characters,including a worker named Jim Burke, who was erecting barricades forthe Boston Marathon; a woman named Dorothy Gibson, whose youngdaughter was getting a painful hair makeover for Easter Sunday; anda South End cosmetologist named Janine Byrne, who was commenting onthe case involving kidnaping defendant Stephen Fagan.When researchers could not document a number of these people,Moore met with Smith earlier this week, at which time he said thatsome questions had been raised about her columns.
Editors hadfailed in efforts to locate individuals quoted by name in hercolumn, and now the paper needed reassurance that these people did,in fact, exist.He handed her the names of six people, asking her to locatethem and document their existence.
Over the course of a two-hourdiscussion, Smith acknowledged that only two of the six nameslisted were of real people.Smith's resignation comes soon after the well-publicized firingof New Republic associate editor Stephen Glass, who was caughtfabricating information in numerous stories.
He left the magazinein May, and The New Republic later issued an explanation andapology to its readers.Yeary joined Salomon Brothers in 1990 where, as a member of thefirm's well-regarded telecommunications group, he worked on some ofthe most visible deals in the sector.
He participated in a numberof major transactions at Salomon, including SBC CommunicationsInc.
's purchases of Ameritech Corp. and Pacific Telesis and thesale of McCaw Cellular Communications to ATT Corp.Yeary is expected to open a New York office for theWashington-based Carlyle Group, which has invested $7 billion inmore than 40 transactions in the United States.Responding to two published reports by the New York Times andthe Associated Press that he is on the verge of becomingpermanent commissioner, Selig told the Globe Thursday that heremains undecided.This came on the heels of a Times report that the searchcommittee appointed in January 1997 has decided there is no onebetter qualified for the job than Selig, baseball's acting bosssince the owners forced out the last full-time commissioner, FayVincent, in September 1992.
The Times said Selig would assume thecommissionership on a full-time basis this year, perhaps by theAll-Star Game in Denver July 7.Selig reinforced that position when contacted by the Globe though he did not rule out taking the job at some point.The owners already have expressed wide backing for one of theirown, though Selig's daughter, Wendy Selig-Prieb, has been runningthe Brewers' operation since her father assumed the commissioner'sduties.
And the burden may be reduced because baseball now has itsfirst full-time CEO, Paul Beeston, in place.Still, Selig obviously has misgivings.
In a recent interview,Selig, 63, said the last five years have been draining on hisfamily.
His commitment to a new Milwaukee stadium, now underconstruction, doesn't end until the facility is completed.
And hehas just become a grandfather.
The next scheduled owners' meetingis Sept. 15-17 in Milwaukee, so Selig still has time to mull hisdecision.The latest call for Selig merely reflects the relativeconfidence his fellow owners have in the onetime car dealer fromMilwaukee who rose from relative obscurity in the 1970s to becomeperhaps baseball's most powerful owner.
Not the richest.
Not theCEO of the biggest and best franchise.
But a little guy from theMidwest who since reestablishing a franchise in Milwaukee in 1970has somehow managed to hang in with the big boys despite thechanging economic conditions.It took three court losses on charges of collusion to expose thecommissioner's office as nothing but an extension of ownership.Vincent was forced out because he dared exercise independentjudgment at a time when ownership wanted a strong front on suchmatters as expansion, realignment, and interleague play.
Vincent'sdeparture was baseball's loss.In his place, ownership turned to Selig and a ruling ExecutiveCouncil, which carried the owners' banner on the aforementionedissues.
In appointing Selig, ownership did give the appearance of aunited front.
But catastrophic confrontation with the unionfollowed, and the result was the players' strike of 1994 that wipedout the World Series and wasn't resolved until the followingspring.SAN FRANCISCO Casey Martin parked his shiny green golf cartabout 20 yards in front of the green on the 438-yard fourth hole atthe Olympic Club Thursday, then limped up the slope and staredtoward the rough that resembled bunches of broccoli on a producestand.Several people in his gallery pointed to the little blue flagmarker near his ball, barely visible deep down in the broccoli.
Sodeep that he had to chip out firmly, his ball sliding about fivefeet past the cup.But on the 437-yard sixth hole, Martin rolled in a 20-foot puttfor the first Open birdie for the first golfer to play in a U.S.Open while riding in a cart between shots.About an hour before his midafternoon tee time, Martin emergedfrom the men's locker room, where he has mingled with the besttouring pros for the first time.Martin acknowledged, however, that some golfers' comments havehurt as much as the circulatory ailment in his right leg known asKlippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome.Martin rebutted those who feel that walking is a test of thefatigue factor in tournament golf.No matter where Martin has played, on the Nike Tour or here atOlympic, he has attracted several disabled people to his gallery.And at Olympic, with high thick rough created by the winter rainfrom El Nino, he planned to hit his 3-wood or his 2-iron off themajority of the tees.Waiting for him in the amphitheater around the 18th green werethousands of spectators sitting and standing on the grassy slopesnext to Olympic's stucco Spanish-style clubhouse.SNIP (Phoenix) Randy Hinkle of Mesa won a free Vase ctomy thismorning.
He blazed through an obstacle course on a 15ALBANY, N.Y.
This was supposed to be the year that a new senseof openness was to reign in Albany.
There were to be no more secretmeetings between the Capitol's power brokers to decide the outcomeof major legislation.
Public business was now to be done in public.And rank-and-file members of the Legislature suddenly mattered.As the final grueling hours of the 1998 legislative sessionwound down Thursday, it found the State Capitol's rulingtriumvirate Gov.
George Pataki, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silverand Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno once again cloisteredbehind closed doors, cutting deals.Suddenly, advocates, reporters and even lawmakers foundthemselves huddled outside the governor's office, as if awaitingthe pronouncement of an oracle.
It was business as usual and evencomforting to some, particularly lobbyists, who thrive on thesecrecy of Albany.The session actually got off to a productive start earlier thisyear.
The leaders of both houses abandoned their much-malignedpractice of secret budget negotiations and allowed the othermembers of the Legislature to negotiate the budget duringconference committees that were open to the public.The return of secrecy generated the swirl of confusion and panicthat has long marked the end of session.
All of a sudden,unfamiliar bills started to surface, some of them the kind ofcontentious ones that flash past bleary-eyed lawmakers who findthemselves having to consider hundreds of pieces of legislation inthe marathon rush to the end.Michael Kink, a lobbyist for Housing Works, an advocacy groupfor people with AIDS, said that he had been checking and recheckingthe legislative calendar to monitor the fate of a little-noticedbill that would allow prison officials to test any inmate for thevirus that cause AIDS.The power of the legislative leaders was clearly evident inother intriguing ways, including the use of committees thatfunction as tools for the leaders of each house because they decidewhich bills go to the floor for a vote and which bills are bottledup.That scenario played out Thursday at a meeting of the AssemblyHealth Committee, where chairman Richard Gottfried was haphazardlysending some bills to the floor and others to the legislativepurgatory of a committee run by Silver.That got some committee members on the sidelines grumbling thatSilver was dictating the outcome.
Sandra Galef, a Democraticassemblywoman from Ossining, asked Gottfried to explain the logicbehind his decisions.Bruce and Janice Grieshaber, a couple from Syracuse, foundthemselves ensnared in a political fight in which they had only themost tenuous connection.The Grieshabers' daughter, Jenna, was killed in Albany last yearby a felon who was on parole, police say.
Pataki seized upon thecase to urge the Legislature, particularly his Democratic rivals inthe Assembly, to end parole for violent felons.Still the events left the Grieshabers filled with hope that ameasure to end parole would be approved after the differences werebridged.Frustrated and angry, the Grieshabers finally spoke out Thursdayafternoon, unexpectedly marching into the Capitol press room todenounce Silver.
They accused the speaker not only of bargaining inbad faith but also of blocking a vote on the governor's plan, eventhough there was widespread support in the Assembly.ST.-DENIS, France If you glanced quickly at the field at theend of Thursday night's game, there appeared to be little reasonfor any French person to complain.France had just won, 4-0, over Saudi Arabia to become the secondteam to clinch a spot in the second round of the World Cup finals.There at midfield, under the wonderfully theatrical oval opening inthe roof of the Stade de France, its players often treated withambivalence in their capital were basking in their newfoundpopularity as the sellout crowd of nearly 80,000 roared.But if you looked more closely, there was cause for pessimism.There on the bench was French striker Christophe Dugarry withcrutches in both hands.
Nowhere on the bench or the field wasDugarry's friend Zinedine Zidane.It was a night of mixed emotions for the host nation.
Yes, theFrench have soothed some of the fears about their ability to scoreand to entertain with seven goals in their first two matches.
Yes,their defensive instincts and organization remain arguably theworld's finest.
But they are now running dangerously low oncenter-forwards, and they will now have to do without their finestplayer, Zidane, for at least one and possibly two games, andDugarry for at least two weeks.What made Zidane's red card more remarkable was that it was thefifth of the day.
Three were awarded in the earlier Group C matchbetween Denmark and South Africa.Two were awarded Thursday night: the first in the 19th minute toSaudi defender Mohammed al-Jahani after an aggressive late tackleon Bixente Lizarazu.
Clearly, the referees are taking Sepp Blatter,the new FIFA president, at his word.Blatter has been trying to rub out dangerous tackling for years,and reminded officials of his desires Wednesday.
Since then, sixred cards have been issued in three matches.Thursday night, it was 11 Frenchmen against 10 Saudis for muchof the match, and it probably would not have been much of a matcheven on equal footing.
The French were in control from the start,and if they had been more decisive offensively, they could havegotten more than two goals from Thierry Henry, one goal from DavidTrezeguet and one from Lizarazu.Parreira left the MetroStars to coach the Saudis for a largefistful of petrodollars.
But after two losses, his new team nolonger has any chance of repeating its surprising 1994 performanceof advancing to the second round, and that will not delight theprinces who run Saudi soccer and have a decidedly Steinbrenneresqueapproach to hiring and firing.WASHINGTON In what has become an annual ritual for theRepublicans in control of Congress, a House subcommittee votedThursday to kill the National Endowment for the Arts but the Senatewas expected to revive it.There was little debate in the House on the reasons for axingthe $98 million in federal money for the arts agency next year.Republicans on the subcommittee were generally silent as Democratsbranded them as sheep following their leaders' election-yearefforts to satisfy conservatives.New York state, which receives about 23 percent of theendowment's grants, is the largest beneficiary in the nation.
Theendowment subsidizes the New York State Council of the Arts andsuch landmark institutions as Lincoln Center and the MetropolitanOpera.The agency has been a favorite punching bag for conservatives,who object to spending taxpayer dollars for the arts in the firstplace and for artistic efforts that they deem obscene and profane.But moderates and liberals, and many of their constituents, supportit and for the last three years they have overridden conservativeefforts to abolish it.Last year the House voted to reduce the endowment's funding tozero from $99.5 million; in the end, the agency received $98million.Thursday's vote got the ball rolling again, but many rank andfile Republicans seemed to have little appetite for the debate.When the move to eliminate the agency came up in the HouseAppropriations subcommittee on Interior, no one complained aboutthe agency itself.Regula said that by simply abolishing the agency, thesubcommittee was presenting a neutral stance to the House so thatit could have an untainted debate.But Democrats on the committee, sensing a winning issue forthem, drew out the discussion and tried, in vain, to include the$98 million in the proposed $13.4 billion Interior spending bill.The chief purpose of the bill, which is $800 million belowPresident Clinton's request and $700 million below this year'sappropriation, is to keep the national parks running.Rep.
Joseph McDade of Pennsylvania, a senior Republican on thesubcommittee, told Obey that he was sympathetic with his view andwould vote to support the endowment when the matter reached thefloor.
But he said it would be a tactical mistake to try to includethe money in the subcommittee recommendation.
He said that such aneffort would be defeated along party lines, making the endowmenteven easier to kill on the floor.In the end, the Democratic efforts to pay for the agency weredefeated on a voice vote.
But whatever the full House does, theSenate is expected to approve financing for the endowment.With tobacco legislation dead, the Senate Thursday quicklypassed the first of the 13 spending bills that both houses arerequired to pass to keep the government operating.
It approved$21.7 billion for flood-control, beach, dam and other waterprojects in nearly every congressional district, an increase of$109 million over the 1998 budget.The vote was 98 to 1.
Sen. Russell D. Feingold, D-Wis., votedagainst it but declined to explain his vote.
He is facing a seriouselection challenge from Rep. Mark Neumann, a conservative andardent opponent of government spending.The bill will have to be reconciled with a House version.
Amajor difference is that the Senate would continue the $70 milliontaxpayer subsidy of the Tennessee Valley Authority, which the Housewould end.TRENTON, N.J.
In less than a minute, the New Jersey Assemblypassed legislation Thursday that would enable Prudential InsuranceCo.
of America to convert from a mutual company, owned bypolicyholders, to a publicly traded one.The bill provides a framework for compensating Prudential's 11million policyholders in the form of stock.
Consumer advocates havepraised the company for its pledge to return its full value topolicyholders but say the bill contains loopholes that couldshortchange consumers.
The bill does not limit executivecompensation and does not detail how the value of the company willbe determined.The Senate is scheduled to vote on an identical bill on Monday.Elizabeth Randall, the state commissioner of banking and insurance,must approve the company's final reorganization plan.SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico More than 6,000 telephone workers wenton an island-wide strike Thursday to try to stop the sale of acontrolling stake of the government-owned Puerto Rico Telephone Co.to a consortium led by the GTE Corp.The strike began with several confrontations between picketersand the police on the same day the Puerto Rico Senate approved the$1.8 billion sale.
The House was expected to do the same bySaturday.But the sale, in which GTE has agreed to buy a majority stake inthe telephone company 50 percent plus one share for $375million, is not expected to be completed until the end of the year,pending regulatory approval, including that of the FederalCommunications Commission.Many countries where telephone companies have been statemonopolies, particularly in Latin America, are privatizing theconcerns.
But the government here has faced heated publicopposition to selling what many view with nationalistic pride as aprofitable public asset that could compete in an opentelecommunications market.
Workers also fear massive layoffs fromConnecticut-based GTE, which has said it would honor existing laborcontracts and would not dismiss any employees for at least oneyear.Michael Masin, vice chairman of GTE and president ofinternational operations, said the company had yet to assesswhether dismissals would be required.
But he added that the companyplanned to offer financial inducements for workers to leavevoluntarily if necessary within the first year.The strike's first day began on a violent note when shovingmatches broke out broke out between riot police officers escortingmanagerial workers to their offices and striking workers who triedto block their way at several buildings here.
In a chaoticearly-morning scene captured by television cameras, police officershit and jabbed workers with nightsticks as they clung to anentrance gate to prevent anyone from entering.About 1,400 of a total of 1,800 management employees made it towork on Thursday, the telephone company said, with some ferried byhelicopters to the roof of the telephone company's headquartershere.
Others rushed through picket lines with food and pillows.Superintendent Pedro Toledo of the police department recommendedlong stays for those working to minimize confrontations.The police said there had been only one arrest, that of a workeraccused of spraying the police with a substance similar to Mace,and two incidents of sabotage that left some San Juan neighborhoodswithout telephone service.
While customers found it hard onThursday to get directory assistance and operator service, companyofficials said regular phone service was virtually normalthroughout the island of nearly 4 million residents.The partial sale of the telephone company is part of aprivatization program initiated by Gov.
Pedro Rossells.
In aninterview on Thursday, he said that telecommunications legislationenacted by Congress in 1996 mandated an end to the telephonemonopoly here and that he envisioned more efficiency, betterservice and lower rates after the company passed to privatecontrol.Union leaders, however, have criticized the deal struck with GTEas too favorable for the buyer, and political opponents haveaccused the governor of selling the company short in order tofinance some of his electoral promises.Under the terms of the agreement, the government of Puerto Ricowould receive $1.8 billion for the majority share of the company,of which a consortium that includes GTE, Banco Popular of PuertoRico and other local investors would pay $375 million, a cashfigure critics find too low.
The other $1.5 billion would come froma commercial loan taken by the privatized telephone company.The government of Puerto Rico would retain at least 44 percentownership after contributing a 3 percent interest to an employeestock ownership plan and offering to sell an additional 3 percentinterest to employees for that plan.The money from the sale would go to pay off the telephonecompany's current debt, finance certain retirement and health-carebenefits for company employees and establish a $1 billion fund toinvest in public works like sewage systems and water distributionsystems.NEW YORK From his hospital bed, the squeegee man who policesay was shot by an off-duty officer in the Bronx on Sunday said inan interview that the officer flew into a rage and shot him in thechest at point-blank range even after he offered to remove the soaphe had poured onto the windshield of the officer's car.The shooting has raised new questions about whether the PoliceDepartment does enough to control officers with a history ofbrutality complaints.The man who was shot, Antoine Reid, 38, is in the intensive careunit at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx, where he is listed incritical but stable condition.
He said the incident began as he waswashing windshields at his usual spot on an exit of the MajorDeegan Expressway.
As he soaped up the window of one car, he said,the driver identified by the police as Michael W. Meyer, anoff-duty police officer cursed him, got out of his car, grabbedhim and then shot him without provocation.Much of Reid's account of the shooting was similar to thestatements that detectives took from several witnesses, accordingto three law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition ofanonymity.
But Meyer and his girlfriend, who was with him at thetime, have yet to provide their accounts and Reid had not yet beeninterviewed by police Thursday last night.
The officer has beencharged with attempted murder and is free on bail.Before the shooting, Meyer had been removed from patrol duty andassigned to the Police Department's maintenance section.
Sevencomplaints have been filed against him with the Civilian ComplaintReview Board and a $100 million civil suit is pending against himin federal court in Brooklyn.
But Meyer, who comes from a family ofpolice officers, had a number of commendations and medals forvalor.Thursday, Reid's family announced that they planned to file a$100 million civil suit against Meyer and the city of New York.Their lawyers said the city was negligent because it knew of theallegations of brutality against the officer but did not take awayhis service pistol.
That gun, a 9-mm semiautomatic, was used in theshooting, the police said.Police Commissioner Howard Safir has said he had no reason totake away Meyer's gun because none of the complaints against himpertained to the use of a firearm.Major league baseball's odd, and seemingly never-ending, pursuitof Bud Selig for the position of commissioner has come to an end.Club owners have finally snared the man who insisted he would notrun if asked and not serve if elected.Selig, according to high-ranking officials in baseball, willsoon officially be dubbed what he always was the man most wantedby his fellow owners.
According to those in the know, the promotionfrom mere club owner and interim commissioner to full-time overseerof his sport should come at or soon after the all-star break nextmonth, despite Selig's contention Thursday that talk of such a movewas premature.It will be Selig's greatest challenge not only to figure out allthe required steps, but discern how to not stumble while attemptingthe saber dance that has skewered the careers of the mostwell-intentioned office-holders.
For baseball's highest officeremains so many things to so many people that it is the mostfatally flawed of all such professional sports posts.The baseball commissioner, similar yet unlike the commissionersfor football, basketball and hockey, is asked to be more than justa chief executive officer.
Rather, he must also be a moralbarometer, public icon, baby sitter, judge and jury, referee,public punching bag, chief bottle washer and, alas, unwitting pawn,as commishes too often find out in times of labor strife.
Despitedonning all these hats, baseball's top guy is never perceived to beas effective as, say, Pete Rozelle was when running the NationalFootball League or David Stern is as he shares the NationalBasketball Association with Michael Jordan.Alas, baseball's commissioner is rarely ever as powerful asthose other commissioners, and, embarrassingly, the pretense comesat times when only potency is needed.
That baseball's commissioneris nonetheless viewed as being all things to all people renders theoffice impossible and the situation winless, as most everycommissioners who preceded Selig would attest.All that usually remains are calls to reform the office andredefine the way baseball is run.
And, of course, thenever-changing expectations that usually do in the commissionerswith the best of intentions.Surprisingly, expectations are also a constant with owners,players and umpires, all of whom should know better since they,more than any other, are the first to encourage a commissioner todo the job only to fillet the man for taking up the challenge.
Onecan almost sense the no-win tag being printed even before Selig'scontract negotiations are complete.Perhaps an even bigger burden facing Selig is his own passion.While Selig's baseball politics have been questioned on occasion,his love for the game rarely is.
And that makes him a lock to bebitten by the worst bug of all commissioneritis, a disease thatconsumes any office-holder who actually cares.
Commissioners whobelieve the game should adhere to a higher standard and shoot forsomething loftier than the bottom line are especially vulnerable.Sadly, this malady is rarely avoided, or rewarded, for that matter.Do the things that you skewered Fay Vincent, the last idealisticcommissioner, for trying to do.
Hold the game's import above allelse.
Care as much about the bottom line of the fan, who frets asmuch over the cost of cold hot dogs as you do about the battlesbetween millionaires and billionaires.Don't forsake the moral standard that includes issues rangingfrom civil rights in the front offices to the lack of civility thatspitting on umpires suggests.Be not only a peacemaker but an innovator by insisting the gamestop slaughtering the images of its biggest assets.
Promote theplayers who are more than worthy of the game's attention.
Make kidswant not only to be like Mike, but like McGwire, as well.
Make theGriffeys and Piazzas true partners and allow the players and theirrepresentatives a fair say in growing the game.Do these things and you will stop the groaning that seemsnever-ending if only because the sport stirs so many emotions on somany different levels and issues on a daily basis.None of the above will be easy.
It isn't supposed to be.
Yet,since Selig is finally willing to accept the job, he must acceptthe challenges to try to make a difference even when intransigenceis the safer bet.
That's what constitutes doing what is in the bestinterest of baseball, the one element of the job that neverchanges.Yes, Selig could be summarily dismissed for succumbing to theessence of the job.
The good ones usually are.
But that's okay ifSelig comes and goes never having failed to weigh what is right asopposed to what is safe.
It is all the fans, the owners, theplayers, the umpires can and should ask.
It is all Bud Selig shouldask of himself.The world championships have become the latest battleground inthe labor strife between the players and the owners.
After theplayers voted unanimously to boycott the event last week in theevent of a lockout, USA Basketball announced Tuesday it would sendan alternate team to Athens, one probably composed of players notin the National Basketball Association.With no deal in sight, the owners are expected to lock out theplayers on July 1 the day after the collective bargainingagreement expires.DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: Like, I am a 17-year-old highschool senior (after I finish summer school) working as a clerk ata video store.
Dude, there is this chick I work with who is, like,SO hot.First off, what should I do?
Second, who's Sylvia Plath?
Ichecked everywhere, even the cut-out bins at the CD store, andcan't find anything by her.DEAR RANDY: There is nothing the Answer Man enjoys more than theromantic entanglements of the immature, self-centered, puerile andnear-illiterate.
He has, in fact, considered devoting an entirecolumn to just this subject, but grew despondent and near-suicidalwhen faced with the prospect that there are readers out there whomight actually enjoy reading it.Failing this, the Answer Man has always found the combination ofa boss muscle car and painful genital self-piercings to bewell-nigh irresistible.As for Ms. Plath, simply ride out this phase.
One can't wearblack for too awfully long without tiring of it.
As you mightsuggest yourself: Just go do it, dude!DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: My mother-in-law doesn't like me.She thinks I am a shrew and a harpie who married her son for hislooks.
I love my husband dearly, but he is 75 pounds overweight,refuses to wash his hair more than once a week and suffersnear-constant, oozing cold sores on his lips.How do I know my mother-in-law feels this way?
She told me.
Shelives with us, complicating matters further.
My husband refuses totake sides, and I'm at my wit's end.
You're my last resort.
Help!
Pulling Out My Hair DEAR HAIR: Ah, love is such a fragile gift.
Call meold-fashioned, but I gravitate toward the simple approach.
Simplytell your mother-in-law that you married her son for his money.Then suggest that she might be more comfortable sleeping in thecellar or the small closet beneath the stairs.
The truth is alwaysbest!DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: Settle a bet between my brother andme.
I say watching Roseanne talk while munching on a loose-meatsandwich would be more disgusting than watching Robin Williamsshave his back; my brother says I'm wrong.
A steak dinner is ridingon your answer!
Manny in Montana DEAR MONTANA: Alas, looks like Dutch treat for you two siblings I'll go with Bill Clinton wrestling Ken Starr in Speedos.
Bonapetit!DEAR PRETENTIOUS ANSWER MAN: We recently adopted an adorable pitbull-Rottweiler mix.
Naturally, he is rambunctious he's alreadykilled three neighborhood cats (he brings them home and leaves themon the doorstep like gifts, the little dear), and has bitten offthe tips of two of my fingers.My wife lives in constant fear that little Cupcake willeventually attack our pet python or eat our collection of scorpionsand tarantulas.
Our twin sons, now 6, have had the snake as a petfor as long as they can remember.
Please advise.
Typing SlowlyObviously you have a special animal on your hands.
I'll beblunt: You need a larger home.
Doubtless, this may seem like alarge investment now, but think of the rewards this little dearwill offer you in the long run!It's true.
There are people who really want to be the voicesanswering the phone numbers that consumers or co-workers call whentheir computers crash or when they can't figure out the tax code,hook up that printer or get the dishwasher to scrub pots.It is no easy job.
Personnel at help desks, after all, mustsoothe angry customers and solve their problems and then do itagain, maybe 100 times a day, five days a week.
They mustunderstand all the technical details in a user's manual, yetexplain them in layman's terms.They must be endlessly patient and polite, even when the calleris neither.
And they must do so in an atmosphere in which theircomings and goings, down to essentials like toilet breaks, areoften rigidly controlled.Such diligent souls are certainly in demand.
Personal computersare ubiquitous.
New and often bug-ridden software floods themarket.
Complex technology pervades cars, televisions and otheritems that were once relatively easy to understand.Even so, the work does not pay particularly well.
Startingsalaries rarely top $30,000 not much for people who often aremiddle-aged or college-educated.
But as time and expertise accrue,help desk workers are often promoted to higher levels, at whichthey spend less time on the phone and more doing research intoproblems.
In a few high-technology companies, such support staffmake as much as $100,000.The demand is overtaxing the supply.
For every help deskemployee who regards the job as a career choice, several more arejust trying to scrape together some extra dollars until a betterposition opens up.Some offer months of training and extensive mentoring; otherscoach people for a few hours and send them to the phones.
Some saya college degree should be required, some call it irrelevant andstill others contend it is a drawback.Many help desks now offer frequent raises, bonuses and paid timeoff.
Many let staff members break from the phones for a few hourseach day to answer e-mail queries or review product literature.
Andmany now have communications programs, complete with newslettersand company outings, as well as career-planning sessions.On the service side, help desk managers are training recruits,often through role-playing, to manage calls say, how to end themquickly without making a client feel rushed, or how to demonstrateempathy.Companies already give help desk employees fingertip access toelectronic manuals.
To further ease demands on their help deskstaff, companies post answers to frequently asked questions ontheir Web pages, or accept and answer queries by e-mail assuming,of course, that the customer's computer is working.And they are starting to give call center personnel access tocustomer accounts help desk staff members at the IRS, forexample, will soon be able to view a caller's tax records andcustomize their responses.Companies are making better use of improved telecommunicationstechnologies.
They are increasingly locating their call centersnear rich veins of potential employees, like suburban homemakerslooking for part-time work.
And they are training their employeesto transfer callers with complex questions to specialists locatedmiles away.The IRS, for example, will soon offer 24-hour phone access toprerecorded answers to common questions.
It also is assessing itsmore than 25,000 help desk employees, and listing their skills in adata base.
The agency wants to spot which workers need extratraining, and it wants to start routing questions to the personmost likely to know the answers.The unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent in May, from 8.1percent in April.
The office of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said it wasthe city's lowest rate since January 1995.
The figures still lagbehind the statewide unemployment rate, 5.7 percent, and thenational rate, 4.3 percent.The mayor's office said 2,900 jobs were created in May, with thelargest numbers generated in sales and in business services, whichinclude secretarial and clerk-related jobs.The banking industry, however, lost 100 jobs and thecommunications and transportation fields lost about 500.
WallStreet's securities business showed a slight rise of 300 jobs.
The July issue of Money magazine contains its 12th annual surveyof the best places to live in America sort of.All this apparently prompted Money editors to rethink theirapproach.
Initially they were going to kill the survey, but thendecided to run it in a truncated form.Media reaction around the country has been huge.
Local andregional newspapers gave the survey heavy play, as did didtelevision and radio news broadcasts.
It also made network TV news.Part of the heavy coverage was because the magazine listed theWashington metropolitan area as the best big Eastern city in whichto live.
And, of course, every city wanted to know its place on thelist.The Washington selection was a surprise to many who were used toa litany of bad news coming out of the nation's capital aboutcrime, drugs and schools.
But for the city and its suburbs, cleanair, good health care, low property taxes and cultural institutionshelped tip the scale.Citing its large middle class and skilled work force, Rogersthinks India will generate profits for investors over the next 5 to15 years.
He acknowledges however, that this depends on peace inthe region.POLITICS AND COMPUTERS July's Smart Money, in a Washingtoncolumn by Albert R. Hunt and Alan Murray, points to the politicaldangers facing Vice President Albert Gore Jr. if the worst fearsabout the so-called millennium bug, or the year 2000 problem, arerealized.
If the problem spirals out of control, they argue, theClinton administration and especially the vice president who hasaligned himself with high-technology issues won't escape thefallout.
This is an issue on which the Republicans are alreadysharpening their knives.MONEY FROM WATER The July issue of Individual Investor exploresways to profit from water, which is getting increasingly expensiveas its demand soars.
For instance, the magazines points out that ittakes 40,000 gallons to produce enough steel for just one car.
Somecompanies it thinks could profit from this growing demand areAmerican Water Works, Ionics, Nalco Chemical, United WaterResources and United States Filter.DEAL TIME If you were prescient or lucky enough to havedumped some stock when the Dow topped 9,200 in April and that cashis burning a hole in your pocket, Money magazine's series ofarticles on super deals what the editors call great products atgreat prices may be just your thing.For bargain-hungry shoppers, Money's pick of a high-end outletmall is Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Central Valley, N.Y. Ifyou're in the market for a diaper bag for the baby, therecommendation goes to a deluxe model from Lands' End for $49.50.Looking for something a little more exotic?
How about a MIG-15 UTI,a jet trainer used by the Soviet air force in the 1950s and 1960s?It can be yours, ready to fly, for $110,000 from Fantasy Flyers inSante Fe, N.M.If you like to travel, Money points to a $2,500 around-the-worldticket offered jointly by Air Canada, Lufthansa, SAS, Thai Airways,United Airlines and Varig.
The ticket is good for up to a year andyou can plan your trip as you go.But some are refreshingly honest, like Donald Trump's andMichael Dell's.
The Donald cites 40 Wall Street, an office buildinghe bought for $1 million two and a half years ago that is estimatedto be worth $100 million today.
Dell's best deal?
The $1,000 heinvested to found the Dell Computer Corp. on May 2, 1984.ON LINE A new magazine, Online Investor, is aimed at those whouse the Internet for financial research and investing.
It ispublished every other month by MVP Media in Chicago.
Jan Parr, theeditor, said it might go monthly early next year.
Money.com, aone-time special issue by Money magazine on the same subject, willbe on newsstands until Aug. 10.
A Money spokeswoman said it couldbecome a regular publication.Funds are closing at a record rate this year.
But according to anew report issued by the Kobren Insight Group a lot more of themshould be slamming their doors.Kobren Insight, an investment management firm in WellesleyHills, Mass., lists 11 funds that for various reasons it saidshould be closed to new investors.The reasons cited in the report run the gamut from a fund'sability to maneuver quickly to over-diversification.
What'ssurprising is the number of high-performance, high-profile fundsthat make the list, among them Janus, Vanguard Windsor II, FidelityEquity-Income and Mutual Discovery.Fund companies are often loath to close even those funds thathave swollen asset bases because the fees they receive are figuredas a percentage of assets under management.
The larger the fund,the bigger the fund company's pay check.Warburg Pincus holds less than $1 billion, which gives managerBrian S. Posner, who used to manage Fidelity Equity-Income II,opportunities that the Fidelity fund is just too large to grab.
Thestrategies are similar, although the Warburg fund is slightly morevalue oriented than the Fidelity fund, Goldfarb said.Goldfarb said investors should not scramble to buy shares ifthese funds announce they will close to new investors.
He addedthat there's no point in dumping shares, either, if you hold themin a taxable account and you have large unrealized gains.Twentieth Century Ultra uses an earnings momentum strategy thatoften requires the fund to trade quickly in response to earningsdisappointments or rejiggered forecasts.
At $26 billion, it maysoon be too large to move nimbly, Goldfarb said.Gunnar Hughes, a spokesman for American Century, which runsTwentieth Century Ultra, said the fund has more good investmentideas now than the money to buy them, and has experienced noliquidity problems.The $22 billion Janus fund is not only a giant in its own right,it also owns many of the same stocks as other Janus funds.
In theaggregate, then, Janus managers may have trouble moving largeblocks of stock without pushing up market prices, Goldfarb said.Moreover, the $14 billion Janus Worldwide is still accepting newinvestments, while Janus Overseas was closed at just $4.3 billionearlier this year.
At the time, Helen Young Hayes, who runs bothfunds, said she was concerned that significant cash coming into thefund would make her job more difficult.
Why not close the largerfund, too, Goldfarb asked.Many people have voiced similar concerns since Janus Overseaswas closed to maintain the quality of its performance, a Janusspokeswoman said.However, she said, Worldwide can own United States stocks aswell as foreign stocks, and that makes it easier for Ms. Hayes tomaneuver.They also begin to move more sluggishly, handicapped by theirlarger size.
Kaufmann is a clear example, said Goldfarb: itsperformance has suffered as assets rose to today's $6.4 billion.
Afund official declined to comment.At the $5.3 billion PBHG Growth fund, liquidity is a concernbecause the fund needs to be able to move quickly to execute itsearnings momentum driven strategy, Goldfarb said.
Gary Pilgrim, themanager, said liquidity is less of a problem at lower-turnoverfunds like his.The $4.3 billion Mutual Discovery fund has moved to mid-capnames in the United States, and its size will lessen its ability tobuy the smaller European stocks that had bolstered its performance,Goldfarb says.Robert Friedman, a manager of Mutual Discover, conceded thatDiscovery has moved into mid-cap stocks, but noted that these tendto be less volatile and that managers have more clout withcompanies.Sheer size reduces a fund's ability to add value through somemid-cap and smaller-cap stocks, especially when funds balloon to$20 billion or more.This includes the $26.6 billion Vanguard Windsor II andFidelity's $18.7 billion Equity-Income II fund, which Goldfarbnonetheless rates as buys because of their strong managers.
But headvised investors to select smaller alternatives, if available.A Vanguard spokesman noted that Windsor II is run by fourdifferent managers who trade independently, adding flexibility thatother large funds may lack.
A Fidelity spokesman said the companywould close its funds if it were in the best interest ofshareholders.T.
Rowe Price International Stock fund's $10.6 billion in assetshas forced it to own a large number of stocks, and loseflexibility.
But Steve Norwitz, a T. Rowe Price spokesman, saidsize is not an issue because the fund owns large companies and isdiversified internationally.By the shores of Lake Merced, the veteran from steamy Orlando,Fla., birdied the final three holes as he came in early with astunning 4-under-par 66 in the first round of the US Open.Mark Carnevale, who has made only four cuts in 14 PGA Tourevents this year, checked in with a bogey-free round of 67.
JoeDurant, who once was so discouraged that he quit the game and hasmade just six cuts in 12 tournaments, walked at Carnevale's sideand posted a 69.
That was later matched by Tom Lehman, who has ledthis championship the last three years entering the final round buthas come up short every time.Stewart, who won the 1991 US Open at Hazeltine in a playoff withSimpson, took the past two weeks off and went to Aruba to film amade-for-TV match with Nick Price, then settled by the pool at hishome in Florida.
He was totally relaxed.His round warmed up on the seventh hole when, from a terriblelie in the rough, he hit into the fronting bunker and got it up anddown to save par.
Then it heated up when he rolled in a downhillputt from 40 feet on the eighth and made a 15-foot birdie putt onthe ninth to turn in 33.Durant stirred things up when he birdied four of the first fiveholes and, after a three-putt bogey on the sixth, hit a 9-iron intothe par-3 eighth and made a birdie to turn in 31.
When he hit awedge into the 12th to within a foot, he was 5 under.
Joe Durant?He returned to earth with a three-putt double bogey on the 14thbut sank a 40-foot birdie putt on the 15th.
Bogeys at 16 and 17clouded his moment in the sun.Embracing a trend that is rapidly reshaping the Internet, WaltDisney Co. let it be known Thursday that the Tomorrowland ofcyberspace will be entered through a giant consumer gateway cobbledwith the gadgets of interactive technologies and the proven lure oftraditional media news, sports, entertainment and information.On Thursday, Disney announced a complex deal valued at about$900 million in which it will buy 43 percent of Infoseek, a servicethat helps guide users to what they want on the World Wide Web.
Theannouncement capped two weeks of fevered developments across mediaand technology industries that were too small to shake thefinancial markets but obviously a trend that was too significant toignore.Last week, General Electric's NBC unit struck a deal to takecontrol of Snap, an upstart online directory service, for up to $65million in cash and more than $100 million in free televisionpromotions.On Monday it was reported that ATT had been negotiating toacquire America Online.
And on Tuesday, Microsoft Corp. opened apublic test of its new portal, known as Start, which is expected tobe in full operation by the end of the year.In the meantime, Netscape Communications Corp. is busy shiftingits focus from making browsers to operating a portal site, andmedia giants like Time Warner and News Corp. are looking to buildor buy similar services.While there are tens of thousands of commercial Web sites, mostof the attention is now focused on the handful that help users findthe information, services or entertainment that they are lookingfor.
Since many people use these sites to start their treks throughcyberspace, they are far and away the most popular places on theInternet.
As a result, they have attracted the lion's share ofadvertising as well as investor interest.America Online, which 18 months ago was drowning in busy signalsand irate customers, has rebounded into the powerhouse ofcyberspace with 12 million paying customers, a market value of $19billion and the self assurance to rebuff ATT's takeover offer lastmonth.Yahoo, the largest of the free, advertiser-supported portalservices, attracts more than 70 million users a month and has avalue of about $6 billion, despite barely breaking even.As these sites grow rapidly in market value and viewership ifnot profits many media companies are deciding that they need tobuy one quickly, despite the high prices, before they becomeunaffordable.
More than one media giant has expressed regret fornot having bought America Online when it was much cheaper.Moreover, as television, telephones and computers all convergeinto one integrated network of communications and entertainment,companies of all sorts see portals as a possible keystone to theirfuture strategy.
The power to funnel users to certain advertisersand content sites is worth millions of dollars in revenue.Disney's intention is to create a new Internet service thatcombines Infoseek with its existing offerings, which include Websites for ABC television, ABC News, the ESPN sports network,Disney's movies, and a site of original Disney entertainment forchildren.Disney, like many other media companies, has been talking to anumber of portal services over the last year.
A few months ago, itwas close to buying a part of Excite, the No.
2 portal service, butthe deal fell apart over the price, investment bankers said.With the stock of the search services trading at stratosphericprices, big companies have been loath to buy them either with cashor their own, more conventionally valued shares.Disney's deal gets around this problem by trading some of itsown Internet ventures at the high value such companies carry for shares in Infoseek.
Specifically, Disney will receive 43percent of Infoseek in return for $70 million in cash andrelinquishing ownership of Starwave, a company that createselaborate Web sites.Starwave's biggest venture is the sports site it operates onbehalf of ESPN.
Disney bought Starwave in several phases over thelast year from Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft.
KeithBenjamin, an analyst for BancAmerica Robertson Stephens, estimatedthat Disney paid about $400 million for Starwave and that it wouldbe worth about $800 million if it were an independent company.Thursday's announcement represented something of an about-facefor Disney.
When it bought full control of Starwave two months ago,it announced plans to integrate the Seattle-based technologycompany with its own Internet operations in Burbank, Calif. Now,all of Starwave will become part of Infoseek, which hasheadquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., in Silicon Valley.Disney also agreed to lend Infoseek up to $139 million over thenext five years in return for the option to bring its ownership to50.1 percent.
Disney, however, will get back most of the cash it isspending, as Infoseek has agreed to buy $165 million in advertisingfrom Disney over the next three years.
That money will buy bothtelevision advertising on ABC and promotion at other Disneyoperations, like the Internet pavilion at Disney World.NBC's deal to buy a stake in Snap was much more favorable to theshareholders of Cnet, the company that owned the portal, Benjaminsaid.
In particular, it will provide more than $100 million in freetelevision advertising.NBC, however, has much more limited ambitions for Snap, aservice with well-regarded technology and very few users.
Thetelevision network hopes that heavy TV promotions will turn Snapinto a popular, stand-alone guide service.
NBC's other Internetactivities, especially its MSNBC news service operated withMicrosoft, will remain separate from Snap.Disney, by contrast, is looking to merge its properties into aunified service that will have more of the cohesive feel thatAmerica Online has.Right now, America Online charges users a $22 monthly fee forboth access to the Internet and its own content.
Portal serviceslike Infoseek and Snap have been free to users.
But Winebaum ofDisney said the company hopes to come up with extra services forwhich users will pay fees.
Disney's ESPN site earns half itsrevenue, for example, from add-on services like fantasy sportsleagues.Even as the big media companies are buying the existing portalsites, many other companies of all sorts are jockeying for positionto earn money as Internet Gateways.
Smaller sites that beganoffering specialized services are now trying to emulate the lookand features of sites like Yahoo.The most feared is Microsoft's Start, because it will be thefirst page seen by users of the Internet Explorer browser softwarethat is now part of the Windows operating system.
MeanwhileNetscape, whose software business has been devastated by Microsoft,has been trying to turn its often visited but dreary home page intoa service with as much news and information as the other portalsites.And Compaq Computer is even trying to turn its products intoportals by installing several buttons on its computer keyboardsthat direct users to certain Web sites.Analysts said that all these moves represent the massing offorces for what will shape up to be a long and brutal war overwhich two or three portal services will become dominant.With the stakes in the online world far lower a few years ago,America Online spent a $1 billion on television advertising anddistribution of sign-up disks to surge past its rivals, Prodigy andCompuserve.WASHINGTON In an unusually sharp rebuke of his party leader,Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato on Thursday urged Senate Majority Leader TrentLott to allow a vote on the nomination of James Hormel asambassador to Luxembourg.The nomination of Hormel, a Democratic contributor from SanFrancisco who is heir to the meat-packing fortune, was approved bythe Senate Foreign Relations Committee on a 16-to-2 vote last fall.But Lott, at the request of a small group of conservative senators,has refused to move the nomination to the floor.D'Amato, who has supported gay rights in the past, is runningfor a fourth term this year and is seeking endorsements from gaygroups.
His letter comes four days after Lott said in a televisioninterview that he considered homosexuality a sin.Feinstein said she believed that more than 60 senators supportHormel, enough votes to overcome any effort to block the nominationthrough a filibuster if it reaches the floor.Officials with one of the groups that D'Amato is courting, HumanRights Campaign, praised D'Amato's letter and said that he was verymuch in the running for their endorsement.Ms.
Stachelberg said D'Amato had opposed efforts to deny federalfinancing to organizations that serve homosexuals, and had been asupporter of homosexuals serving in the military and a sponsor oflegislation to prohibit job discrimination against gay men andlesbians.But officials with a New York gay rights group, Empire StatePride Agenda, criticized D'Amato on Thursday for not doing enoughto pressure the Republicans who control the New York state Senateto allow a floor vote on legislation that would prohibitdiscrimination against homosexuals.
The bill was still locked incommittee Thursday as the Legislature neared the end of this year'ssession.D'Amato, who is viewed as the leader of the state RepublicanParty, called Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno last week to urgehim to allow a vote.
But he did not lobby individual senators, saidMatt Foreman, executive director of Empire State Pride Agenda.NEW YORK In 1972, Claus Reinisch had an idea for improving thetraffic flow in mid-Manhattan: confine pedestrians to one side ofthe street when they are crossing major avenues.
For example, theywould have to stick to the north side to get across southboundFifth Avenue.
That way, he said, cars would have an easier timeturning into the avenue from side streets, and the backup ofcrosstown traffic would be reduced.Reinisch, who used to be the district manager of Community Board1 in Manhattan, sent his suggestion to Dry Dock Savings Bank.
DryDock, requiescat in pace, was soliciting thoughts on how to unclogNew York's boulevards, sclerotic even then.
In February 1972, itprinted 11 proposals in a full-page advertisement in The New YorkTimes, and one of them was Reinisch's.If his idea rings a bell, it should.
It is the very premiseunderlying the ballyhooed pedestrian barriers that Mayor RudolphGiuliani set up six months ago along 49th and 50th streets.
OnlyReinisch thought of it 26 years ago.Why mention this now?
Certainly not to accuse the PoliceDepartment's barricades guru, Chief Allan Hoehl, of stealingsomeone else's brainchild.
It is merely to keep the record straight no small matter, given how the Giuliani administration wantseveryone to believe that before it came on the scene, City Hall wasan idea-free zone.With the mayor backpedaling on his plan to banish sidewalkvendors from many street corners, it seemed reasonable to check outother pillars of his vaunted quality-of-life campaign.
Might thebugler be sounding retreat on the midtown barricades, too?It did not look like it Thursday.
They were still there, allright.
So were the usual police officers standing guard, lookingbored and muttering off the record about their talents beingsquandered.That is not entirely accurate.
While many New Yorkers still feelthat the barricades were shoved down their throats by a zero-summayor who loves above all to get his way, the police hierarchypronounces itself satisfied.Comparative police studies done in October and January, severalweeks after the, uh, facilitators were installed, found that theaverage car speed along 49th Street had increased by 13 percent, to6.2 mph, from 5.5.
The increase was even bigger on 50th Street: 21percent, to 5.8 mph, from 4.8.A separate police survey in the barrier area, which stretchesfrom Third Avenue to Avenue of the Americas, showed that it took18.2 minutes to make a round trip, back and forth, along 47th and48th streets.
The time for 49th and 50th streets was only 12.7minutes.But McShane acknowledged that the police had not bothered toexamine how much time pedestrians lose zigzagging their way nowalong the barricaded streets.
That, you would think, is worthknowing.If you have not been to midtown lately, traffic most days is ascongealed as a day-old lamb chop.
Reinisch, for one, feels thatlittle has been done to crack down on the likes of double-parkedlimos, tourist buses that sit forever in no-standing zones andendless street fairs that back up traffic for blocks around.SAN FRANCISCO On a day when it was difficult to birdie anyholes, Payne Stewart did some special things Thursday in the firstround of the U.S. Open.
He birdied the final three holes.
He madejust one bogey on the picturesque but lethal Lake course at theOlympic Club, a place that left many competitors complaining,cursing and putting some strange numbers on their scorecards.So when the day had ended, Stewart was on top of his game and ontop of the leaderboard.
Shooting a well-earned four-under-par 66,Stewart held a one-stroke lead over the surprising Mark Carnevale.Tom Lehman and Joe Durant were in a tie for third at 68, with somegolfers still on the course.
Other prominent names like John Daly(69) and Jasper Parnevik (69) lurked within contention.The U.S. Open is more like a sprint than a marathon, so Stewarthad no plans to begin writing a victory speech.
But for Stewart,who has won two major championships, the 1989 PGA Championship andthe 1991 U.S. Open, Thursday's round was a pleasant reminder thatwhen at his best, Stewart can play with anyone.Stewart spoke the truth.
Some of the game's greatest playerswere forced to struggle on some holes like weekend duffers.
Therewere big numbers all over the board, and some pre-tournamentfavorites like David Duval (75), Ernie Els (75), and Davis Love(78) were in danger of missing Friday's cut.
Stewart's playingpartners, Curtis Strange (77) and Hale Irwin (80), both strugggled.The course played as tough as advertised, with the 6-inch deeprough, narrow sloping fairways and small greens making every holedifficult.
Heaven forbid if the wind starts to blow this weekend,because that will make the Olympic Club even more of a torturechamber.For Stewart, playing steadily was a strong statement for someonewho has not won on the PGA Tour since the 1995 Shell Houston Open.There have been times during the past two years when Stewart hasdrawn more attention for his knickers than for his game, and it hasbeen frustrating for him not to play at the level he did during thelate 1980s and early '90s when he was one of the world's best.
Yet,at 42, Stewart has reached a time when his experience is an asset,and he still has the ability to play at a high level.Thursday was one of those days, and his finish wasextraordinary.
Reaching the 16th tee at one-under par, Stewartstarted his string of three consecutive birdies, a finish that maynot be equaled all week.
At the par-5, 609-yard No.
16, Stewart hita 9-iron approach shot to within 8 feet, then made the putt.
ThenStewart went to the par-4, 468-yard No.
17, one of the toughestholes in golf that is usually a par-5 for members.
Stewart hit adriver, then a 2-iron shot that stopped 45-feet in front of thehole.
Stewart lined up the long putt, hit it confidently and madeit.
When the putt went in, Stewart shook his body as if he had beenelectrocuted.While Stewart's round was not a total shock, Carnevale's roundwas.
Carnevale played on the Nike Tour last year, and his best PGATour finish this year is a tie for 41st place.Durant was the only player who reached five under par Thursday,but then double-bogeyed No.
14.
Danger lurked at every hole.Olympic features a brutal start.
No.
3, No.
4 and No.
5 are rankedthe second, third and fourth hardest holes on the courserespectively.
Get through that stretch, and you are still facedwith the rough and the tiny greens.
And Thursday's pin placementswere difficult.But Thursday night, Stewart could rest more easily than most.
Hehad one good day in the bank.
And that was more than many otherscould say.ELMONT, N.Y.
The best fillies in the East including lastyear's champion and two arriving with five-race winning streaks will compete at Belmont Park Saturday in the Hempstead Handicap,running a mile and one-sixteenth for a purse of $250,000 and amajor credential in the race for division honors.The champion is Ajina, the winner of the Breeders' Cup Distafflast November and the Eclipse Award as the 3-year-old fillychampion.
She will be the overnight favorite at 6-5 for hertrainer, Bill Mott, and her jockey, Mike Smith.
But Ajina will haveto outrun Glitter Woman, trained by Shug McGaughey with JerryBailey riding and a record that shouts.
In 13 of her 15 starts,Glitter Woman has run first or second.Ajina and Glitter Woman, who have each earned more than $1million, should get a run for their money from the two filliescoming into the Hempstead with the five-race winning streaks:Colonial Minstrel, who has run in the money 12 times in 14 starts,and Mossflower, a daughter of Affirmed, who has started just fivetimes but won them all.
And everybody will be keeping an eye on thetwo fillies who complete the field, Dixie Flag and Royal Indy, bothtrained by Allen Jerkens.Mossflower will be running her first stakes race, and hertrainer, Richie Schosberg, sees nothing but class in her path.This evil is insidious, like all the worst evils: vampires,lobbyists, the bubonic plague.
It moves with utmost stealth,thrives on lack of vigilance.
Relax for an eye's blink, and boom.Somehow, niceties like that, the real fallout from the 1970s,get skipped by those rejoicing over hiphuggers, tube tops and Kooland the Gang.
We also don't hear much about that other legacy ofthe Disco Age.I am speaking of Richard Nixon and Watergate, of 1974 and hisplane out of D.C. Three Mile Island, the Bee Gees, polyester mercifully, those afflictions came and went.
But nothing hasstitched the tear between politicians and people.The 1970s brought us all that.
Thus, the decade begs forexecution.
Instead, its corpse keeps jumping up for one more chanceto do The Hustle.
A MERCY KILLINGMan, this decade has been on the way back for so long, I can'twait until it finally gets here.
So we can jab a stake through itsheart.Or drown it in Billy Beer.
Or coat it in Jovan Musk Oil for Men.Whatever it takes to kill the '70s.KC, Your Boogie Man, must've tripped on his Boogie Shoes andsmacked his head while (Shake, Shake, Shake) Shaking His Bootybecause he was so wrong.Only 14 months ago, after time out for basketball and brokenlegs, she started competing again in track and field.
Two monthslater, she won national championships in the 100-meter dash and thelong jump.
Two months after that, she won those events in the worldchampionships in Athens.Here, in the U.S championships Friday through Sunday, she isfavored to win three titles the 100 and 200 meters and the longjump.
That Jesse Owens-Carl Lewis type of triple was lastaccomplished in the women's competition by Stella Walsh in 1948.It also keeps it scary because the three rounds of the 100, thethree rounds of the 200 and the long jump are crammed into threedays.
Saturday can be especially hazardous, with the 100 final at 7p.m., Eastern time; the long jump at 8 and the 200 quarterfinals at8:50.She has been a star from the time she entered her teens, and in1992 she made the U.S. Olympic team as a relay alternate.
But hermother thought it was too much too soon for a 15-year-old, so thedaughter stayed home.North Carolina won the battle of college recruiters by allowingher to double in track and basketball.
She became the fastest pointguard alive, but in the summer of 1995 she broke her left footplaying basketball and in January 1996 she broke it again doing along-jump drill on a trampoline.
She missed the 1996 track season,watching the Olympics from the same place as in 1992 in front ofa television set.
She finished her senior year of basketball, thenhad to make a choice.This year, she is the world leader in the 100 meters (10.71seconds), the 200 (21.94 seconds) and the long jump (23 feet 11 3/4inches).
The respective world records for those events are 10.49and 21.34 seconds, both by Florence Griffith Joyner of the UnitedStates, and 24 feet 8 1/4 inches by Galina Chistyakova of theSoviet Union.
All three records were set in 1988.The Grand Prix meet scheduled for July 25 in Durham, N.C., hasbeen moved to Edwardsville, Ill., and will be called the U.S. Open:Track and Field's Farewell to JJK.
JJK is 36-year-old JackieJoyner-Kersee, who was raised in that area and is retiring afterthree Olympic gold medals and five world records in the heptathlonand the long jump.NEW YORK Amid a surging demand to produce films in New YorkCity, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's administration has promised a pairof young entrepreneurs a lease to build a major Hollywood-stylemovie studio in the Brooklyn Navy Yard provided they can obtain$190 million in financing by December.The plan, the most ambitious of several proposals for new soundstages and film studios in the city, represents a gambit by twolittle-known players in an industry defined by fast fame andfortune.
If they succeed in attracting the financing, they would begranted a 70-year lease on 15 acres of the Navy Yard.The site is among the city's most famous pieces of industrialreal estate, since it includes the cavernous shipbuilding structurethat produced the U.S.S.
Missouri and other warships during WorldWar II.No government incentives are being offered beyond those thatwould be granted any industrial concern taking space in the city.And entertainment industry executives said the plan could beundermined by the relative inexperience of the partners, or by atendency of some producers to regard Brooklyn as a tawdry stepchildto Manhattan.Still, the Navy Yard proposal resonates with an odd blend of NewYork City history, entrepreneurial drive, the promise of anindustrial renaissance and an unlikely alignment of forces on WallStreet and at City Hall.On Wall Street, the project's chief financial adviser is J.P.Morgan, where investment bankers who specialize in media andentertainment have been approaching corporate finance and Hollywoodexecutives to cover the anticipated $190 million in developmentcosts.Among the advantages of the Navy Yard, he said, is the sheeravailability of space, its ready access to major highways, itsisolation from residential areas and its proximity to the hotelsand other amenities of Manhattan.
He said he expected financing forthe project to be in place by September.
If so, construction couldbegin by early next year, and the first production could start ayear later.For many producers, the key advantage of having a full-servicestudio in New York would be that it would eliminate the need totravel back and forth between California sound stages andproduction sites in the East.The authors of the Navy Yard proposal, who would control whatthey are calling simply New York Studios Inc., are Louis Madigan, ajocular, 30-year-old computer consultant and Internet whiz, andCary Dean Hart, 35, a movie-set designer.The two men said they approached J.P. Morgan and the Navy Yard'sdirectors with their idea a year ago, and in March were given theconditional promise of a 70-year lease.
If financing is obtainedand the studio built, their payments would be $16,250 a month, anamount that would triple after five years of operation.While neither Madigan nor Hart brings the credentials that wouldassure them a good seat at a Hollywood restaurant, both havepersonal and professional connections to the Navy Yard.Madigan, a stalwart in New York City's burgeoning new-mediaindustry, is a Brooklyn native and the grandson of a Navy enginemechanic who, with the rest of his World War II crew, received apresidential citation for work in the Navy Yard on the U.S.S.Missouri.Both men say New York Studios was the idea of Hart, whose setdesign company, Delphi Studios, set up shop in a Navy Yardwarehouse in 1991.The Navy Yard plan is far from the only studio productionventure being promoted at a time when demand for existing studiosand sound stages has never been more intense.But entertainment industry executives said most, if not all, ofthe other proposals are for studios that would be dedicated totelevision, while the far larger studio envisioned at the Navy Yardwould also be suitable for movie production.There is ample reason to be skeptical of any offer from thespeaker.
To sabotage a debate in March, Gingrich tried to foist aphony bill on the House.
He later spoke of a vote in May, and nowhe is talking July.
It all adds up to a speaker on the run,improvising to forestall the inevitable.
The handshake Thursdaybetween Shays and Dick Armey, the majority leader, amounts to thefirst firm promise of an actual vote.The evidence is mounting, moreover, that the Shays-Meehanlegislation, co-sponsored by Rep. Martin Meehan of Massachusetts,is picking up steam.
This page had urged that supporters ofShays-Meehan, which would ban unlimited contributions to parties bycorporations, unions and rich donors, reject a separate billcalling for a study commission.
The fear was that the commissionmight pass by a small margin, and that the Shays-Meehan bill wouldhave to pass by an even bigger margin to become law.
On Wednesdaynight the commission was actually defeated, 201-156, sending athunderbolt into Gingrich's office.The speaker then began to worry that enough Republicans mightdefect and join with the Democrats to reject a special rulegoverning the debate, which would have allowed for thedeath-by-amendment scheme.
If the rule had gone down to defeat, thespeaker would effectively have lost control of his own House.Democrats were angry that Shays agreed to support the rule inreturn for Armey's promise to schedule a vote.
But this is a gamethat requires some gambles.The defeat of the commission measure suggested that there are 30to 50 moderate Republicans ready to declare their independence fromthe leadership and join with perhaps 190 Democrats to put themeasure over the top this summer.
It would then have to go back tothe Senate, where a clear majority are also on record as favoringreform but saw it killed last year because of a filibuster underthe direction of Trent Lott, the majority leader.We remain convinced that if the Shays-Meehan bill passes thissummer and goes back to the Senate, Lott will not be able tocontrol his members and make them dance to the tune of janglingcash registers.
There will, we predict, be enough Republicans inthe Senate as the election approaches to break the filibuster andpass reform.
It is anything but a sure thing, but this is no timeto give up.
NEW YORK About 13,000 members of the largest unionrepresenting New York City hospital workers rallied along Broadwayin midtown Manhattan on Thursday afternoon, vowing to strike if 35private hospitals do not offer them a satisfactory new contract byJune 30.Gathering in Central Park and marching down Broadway to anelaborate soundstage erected in front of the Crowne Plaza Hotel on48th Street the site of negotiations between the hospitals andthe union leaders of the march threatened a walkout by 50,000workers in 35 hospitals if the hospitals do not accede to theirdemands.The two sides have been negotiating in the hotel for the lasttwo weeks.
They held talks Thursday morning, suspended them duringthe demonstration and resumed them Thursday evening.
The two sidesare at odds over job security, a pay increase and potentiallayoffs, among other issues.Industry officials say the city's hospitals are underused andhave estimated that a staff reduction of more than 15 percent willbe needed in the next three to seven years.
Union officials saythose estimates are exaggerated, and insist that through earlyretirements, attrition and other means, large-scale layoffs can byavoided.The demonstration, which organizers said 22,000 people attended,snarled traffic in midtown for several hours as police blocked offat least 10 blocks of Broadway beginning at 3 p.m.
But thedemonstrators, who assembled in Central Park at 3 p.m., did notstart marching down Broadway until after 5 p.m.PHOENIX Randy Hinkle won the contest Thursday, but it's thedoctor who will make the final cut.Hinkle was a virile competitor, nearly tipping his 15-horsepowerJohn Deere mower as he rounded the final turn, sputtering towardsthe finish line at the course set up at Los Arcos Mall inScottsdale.Other men watching the festivities would have raced to avoid avasectomy.
But Hinkle, 42, was eager to claim the prize.Hinkle bested two opponents, Jesse Mason and Chris Carlile, towin his date with the doctor.
The losers got KSLX-FM T-shirts asconsolation prizes.Each day this week, the station is hosting a lawn mower contest,buying the winner a vasectomy in honor of Father's Day.Other men wanted to race the riding mowers.
But they turned paleand slinked back into the crowd after hearing the V-word.Evidence keeps mounting that the Chinese army is exploitingflawed American export controls to acquire sophisticated satellitecommunications technology for military and intelligence use.
ThePentagon and State Department are now questioning the pending saleof a Hughes communications satellite whose upgraded design wouldlet Chinese authorities eavesdrop on mobile telephone conversationsat home and abroad.
President Clinton should suspend this sale andthe licensing of any more satellite deals with China until exportcontrol rules are tightened.
In particular, he needs to put theState and Defense departments back in charge of export approvalsand diminish the role of the Commerce Department.Communications satellites must be carefully watched because theyhave both military and civilian uses.
Satellites for civilianmobile telephones can be used by China's army to communicate withremote field units.
When equipped with powerful antennas andcomputers, they can spy on other countries' communications systems.In the mid-1990s, with China's own communications satelliteswearing out, military leaders set out to find foreign-builtreplacements.
The Clinton administration initially approved theHughes sale, it now says, after being advised that the Chinesecould purchase similar communications technology from Europeansources.
But since that approval, the project has been modified byadding a more powerful antenna.
It is not clear that China couldobtain comparable equipment from Europe.Critics have suggested that the administration loosened therules on satellite sales because of large campaign contributions tothe Democratic Party from the American aerospace industry and, itappears, Chinese military officials.
In late 1996, the same yearClinton initially approved the Hughes satellite, he granted theaerospace industry a change in export licensing procedures.Satellite licensing authority was shifted from the State andDefense departments, whose concern is national security, to theCommerce department, which promotes business deals.But in a country like China, where aerospace and communicationscompanies have close links to the army and government, these dealsare rarely purely commercial.
Clinton should work with Congress andthe intelligence agencies to evaluate any damage done and develop asounder policy.
MONTREAL Montreal Manager Felipe Alou not only is Mel Rojas'uncle, but also used to be his manager.
That was when Rojas was athis best as a reliever, from 1994-96.
Now, Rojas, 31, is strugglingin his role as the Mets' setup man.After Rojas had picked up the loss in Wednesday night's 5-4victory over the Expos, the right-handed pitcher said one of thereasons he has struggled this year against right-handed hitters isbecause he throws so many more fastballs to them than toleft-handed hitters, against whom his main weapon is hissplit-finger fastball.L.
Edwin Smart, a former chairman and chief executive of TransWorld Airlines, died June 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Centerin New York.
He was 74 and lived in New York.Smart became chairman and chief executive of TWA in 1977 and wasnamed chairman and chief executive of Transworld Corp., a holdingcompany formed when the airline was restructured in 1978.The conglomerate spun off TWA in 1983, after defeating atakeover bid by Texas International Airlines, which was led byFrank Lorenzo.
TWA was eventually purchased by Carl Icahn in 1985.Smart sold Transworld's hotel division in 1986, and liquidatedmost of the assets to avoid an acquisition by Ronald Perelman, thetakeover investor and chairman of Revlon Inc.
The resultingcompany, called TW Services, was devoted to the food servicesindustry.
Smart left in April 1987.
In 1989, TW Services wasacquired by Coniston Partners, a New York investment firm.Louis Edwin Smart graduated from Harvard University in 1947, andHarvard Law School in 1949, both with magna cum laude degrees.
Hejoined Hughes, Hubbard Reed (then Hughes, Hubbard Ewing) thatyear, and became a partner in 1957.
During his tenure at the firm,one of his major clients was Bendix Corp.In 1964, Smart was named president of the international divisionof Bendix, a position he held until he joined TWA as an executivevice president in 1967.In addition to his wife, Smart is survived by a daughter,Cynthia S., of San Antonio; two sons, Dana G., of Long Beach,Calif., and Douglas E., of Madison, Conn., and five grandchildren.Forrest Hunter Kirkpatrick, a retired educator, corporateexecutive and management consultant on personnel administration andindustrial relations, died May 31 at the Ohio Valley Medical Centerin Wheeling, W.Va.
He was 92 and lived in Wheeling.He had long associations with Bethany College in West Virginiaand Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.
In the 1940s, on a leave ofabsence from the college, he organized a personnel administrationprogram for Radio Corp. of America and then served RCA as aneducational consultant until 1960.He graduated from Bethany College in 1927 and earned a master'sdegree at Columbia University in 1931.
He was a professor and deanat Bethany from 1927 to 1940 and again from 1946 to 1952.In 1952 he was named assistant to the chairman at what was thenWheeling Steel.
He retired from the company as a vice president andsecretary in 1970.Over the years he served as a consultant to various federaldepartments and agencies.NEW YORK Bowing to pressure from federal prosecutors, the NewYork City Police Department has agreed to overhaul its system forinvestigating sexual harassment complaints andgender-discrimination charges within the department.The policy changes came as part of a settlement, announcedThursday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, of a lawsuit thegovernment filed against the department.
The department has alsoagreed to strengthen its policy against displaying pornographicmaterials in station houses, to increase the staffing of its Officeof Equal Opportunity Employment to 30 investigators, from 20, andto start mandatory programs to teach all 38,000 officers andcommanders procedures for preventing and reporting sexualharassment.The U.S. attorney's office sought the stricter standards twoyears ago, after a former police officer filed a lawsuit allegingthat her commanders at the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, Queens, hadignored complaints that male officers routinely watchedpornographic movies in the lounge of the station house and postedphotographs of naked women on the station's walls.After reviewing the officer's charges, Mary Jo White, the U.Sattorney for the Southern District, also sued the department,saying that tougher standards and more vigilant enforcement wereneeded to protect female police employees.The lawsuit was the first of its kind to be filed by thegovernment against a city police department, and Ms. White saidThursday that the settlement, which allows the U.S. attorney toreview all of the department's harassment investigations, was anencouraging sign that police commanders might improve their effortsin the future.Deborah Zoland, the police lawyer who negotiated the settlement,said the lengthy court battle helped police commanders improvetheir policies by viewing their anti-harassment measures from anoutside perspective.
Ms. Zoland said the pact would ultimately makethe department more active in preventing workplace harassment.Ms.
Goff's complaint also charged that a supervisor oncehumiliated her in front of other officers by suggesting she have abulletproof vest specially designed to accommodate her breasts.
Ms.Goff, who no longer works for the department, has an unlistedtelephone number and could not be reached for comment.Police policy already forbids officers to display inappropriatematerial in department buildings, but under the guidelines adoptedThursday, the desk commanders in each precinct must now inspecttheir buildings at the start of each shift and immediatelyconfiscate any pornography.
Police officials also agreed to add newsections to the department's patrol guide that strengthen therequirements to report any harassment and to include a new sectionin supervisors' performance evaluations that grades theirsensitivity to harassment complaints.But neither federal officials nor police commanders woulddiscuss how the settlement would affect another recent sexualharassment case in the Police Department.
In that case, PoliceCommissioner Howard Safir overruled the recommendation of hiscommissioner for Equal Employment Opportunity that a high-levelcommander be disciplined for failing to respond properly to afemale officer's harassment charges.Richard Holbrooke is living proof that you do not have to winfriends to influence people.
The most undiplomatic of diplomats, heis nevertheless persuasive enough to be a good choice for the postof Washington's representative to the United Nations.
The man hereplaces, Bill Richardson, is his stylistic opposite, anOlympic-class schmoozer.
He, in turn, knows Washington and therelevant issues well enough to make a solid energy secretary.One of the few things these two men share is friendship with AlGore and a fervent and not entirely disinterested desire to see himpresident.
Richardson, conscious that voters do not always rewardforeign policy expertise, has talked about running for governor orsenator in his home state of New Mexico, and some reports have Goreeyeing him as a possible running mate.
The post of energy secretarywill give him cabinet-level experience in a domestic issue, one ofparticular importance to New Mexico, home of the Los Alamos andSandia nuclear laboratories.
But he will lose political stature ifhe uses the post to promote pork projects for his home state.Much has been made of the rivalry between Secretary of StateMadeleine Albright and Holbrooke, who nearly had her job.
It istrue that Holbrooke has a reputation as a difficult man whosometimes verges on self-parody.
But he is also seriously concernedabout the moral dimensions of foreign policy and the use ofAmerican influence.
He will be a valuable ally for Albright inadministration discussions and help her counter the Pentagon, whichhas drawn President Clinton into bad decisions on such issues asland mines.Holbrooke will not charm his U.N. colleagues.
Indeed, many U.N.officials who worked with him when he successfully led the Bosnianpeace negotiations were put off by what they and numerous others perceived as his arrogance.
But head-cracking has served him, andAmerican interests, well in the past.
Cardinal John Joseph Carberry, who was a canon lawyer active inthe Roman Catholic Church's affairs and who led the Archdiocese ofSt.
Louis for 11 years, died on Wednesday at St. Agnes Home inKirkwood, Mo.
He was 93.Carberry was installed in 1968 by Pope Paul VI as archbishop ofSt.
Louis, the spiritual leader of more than 500,000 RomanCatholics.
He succeeded the late Cardinal Joseph Ritter and, likehim, made civil rights a central issue in his tenure.
Carberry wasalso a leading national figure in ecumenism with the Protestantchurches.
He was named archbishop emeritus in 1979 at 75, theretirement age set by the Vatican.Carberry was considered more theologically conservative than hispredecessor as archbishop and was chosen with particular care bythe Vatican in light of an initiative by a group of diocesanpriests and laymen who wrote a program in 1965 that questionedtraditional doctrines and practices.The pope elevated him to cardinal in 1969, when he was thebishop of Columbus, Ohio, as someone likely to maintain disciplineamong the rank and file and diocesan laity.
In fact, he becameknown in St. Louis as the creator of the Archdiocesan Pro-LifeCommission, a model for anti-abortion groups in churchjurisdictions around the United States.
It was also noted that hisadministration left the archdiocese in sound financial condition.He was respected for his careful, scholarly preparation formeetings.
He took part in all four sessions of the Vatican Councilconvened by Pope Paul XXIII and missed only a day and a half as thecouncil sessions stretched from 1962 to 1965.Carberry sat in the two conclaves of 1978 that elected Pope JohnPaul I and, after his sudden death, John Paul II, the firstnon-Italian pontiff since 1523.A native of New York City, Carberry began to study for thepriesthood at 15 at Cathedral College Seminary in Brooklyn.
He wasordained a priest of the Diocese of Brooklyn at the North AmericanCollege in Rome in 1929.Returning to the United States, Carberry received a doctorate incanon law at Catholic University of America in 1934, was secretaryto the bishop of Trenton, N.J., and returned to Brooklyn in 1940 toteach at the diocesan seminary.
Pope Pius XII named him bishop ofLafayette, Ind., in 1957, and Pope Paul named him bishop ofColumbus in 1965.He was elected vice president of the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops in 1974 and was a U.S. delegate to the World Synodof Bishops in 1972, 1974 and 1976.
He was a past chairman of theBishops' Committee for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs.In retirement, he remained active in church life and communityaffairs in St. Louis until he suffered a stroke in 1988.Yet in their silver-screen debut a $70 million, two-houraction-packed adventure that opens today Scully and Mulder arenot traveling to a land where no man has gone before.According to ACNielsen EDI research, the average gross formovies made from television shows this decade is $60.6 million.
Theaverage for all other films in wide release is $35.2 million.If the celebration turns out to be profitable, the possibilitiesfor television producers who want to make movies is nearly endless,Borys said.But Borys doesn't think just anyone can do it.
Sitcoms couldn'tmake the translation, he said.For the second time in little more than a month, a girl wasraped in the main branch of Newark's public library, police andlibrary officials said Thursday.On Wednesday, a 16-year-old girl who was a regular patron of thelibrary on Washington Street was attacked amid stacks of fictionbooks on the second floor of the four-story building after a manasked her to help him find material for a book report, saidDetective Rocco Malanga of the Newark Police Department.
Theattacker was described as a light-skinned Hispanic man withred-streaked brown hair and brown eyes, Malanga said.The latest attack came just five weeks after a 15-year-old girltold police she had been raped in a second-floor restroom by a manwho threatened to kill her if she screamed for help, Malanga said.Three days after that rape, which occurred on May 13, policearrested Jason Yantin, 18, of Newark, and charged him withaggravated sexual assault and endangering the welfare of a minor.Boyd said that library officials had already closed thesecond-floor restrooms in response to the first rape and had forcedpatrons to ask for a key to those on the first floor, which can nowbe used by only one person at a time.
He said officials increasedthe number of security guards in the library Thursday to five fromthree, and planned to install 10 to 15 security cameras.NEW YORK Melvin Barnet, who was among several editors andreporters questioned by a congressional committee investigatingcommunist affiliations in the news business in the 1950s and whowas dismissed by The New York Times after invoking the FifthAmendment, died June 17 at Long Island College Hospital inBrooklyn.
He was 83 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.The subcommittee had been looking into disclosures made byWinston Burdett, a CBS correspondent who said he had joined theCommunist Party in the late 1930s while working at The BrooklynEagle.
As the opening witness in the subcommittee hearings, Burdettnamed 12 former colleagues at The Eagle, including Barnet, as partymembers.When, two weeks later, Barnet, a Harvard graduate and an Armyveteran of World War II, was asked about these and other names, herepeated his refusal to comment, citing the constitutionalprotection against self-incrimination.In that period, characterized by fears of Soviet espionage andcommunist-hunting by Sen. Joseph McCarthy, R-Wis., such responseswere at times offered by witnesses who believed it dishonorable toname old colleagues and implicate them in their own troubles.Seven employees of the news department were called before theEastland subcommittee; six provided accounts of their communistbackgrounds to the editors of The Times, and remained in theirjobs.After he was fired, Barnet had difficulty finding work.
Hepicked oranges in Florida, served as cook on a shrimp boat andedited manuscripts for vanity presses before joining The MedicalTribune, a journal distributed to doctors, in the 1960s.
He wasassociate editor when he retired in 1978.He is survived by his wife, Joan; a son, Michael Cross-Barnet ofSanta Monica, Calif.; a brother, Stuart, and a sister, BeverlyMorrison, both of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.The incident in New Jersey in which five gunshots were firedinto the house of a sex offender shows how vulnerable theseindividuals are to vigilante actions.
New Jersey Attorney GeneralPeter Verniero has vowed to prosecute the unknown shooters and isdirecting local authorities to increase community education effortsto prevent vigilantism, but such measures do not correct theproblem inherent in the state's sex-offender notification law.New Jersey's law provides notification to community groups,schools and even whole neighborhoods.
The information inevitablyspreads far beyond the neighborhood, and the broader thedissemination, the greater the risk of trouble.
In 1995, two menbroke into a house and beat a New Jersey man whom they mistakenlythought was a sex offender.In the shooting case, the offender, Frank Penna, was convictedof kidnapping and rape in 1976.
He has been out on parole since1992.
Under the New Jersey law, offenders who have been out ofprison for up to 15 years are still subject to communitynotification requirements.Penna's neighbors had no reason to believe him a danger untilthey were notified of his criminal record two weeks ago.
The threathe poses to the community is theoretical.
But the bulletsapparently meant for him were very real.
They could easily haveinjured or killed his neighbors.
That irony should not be lost onthose who think notification promotes public safety without alsoexacting a cost.SEATTLE The Asian flu is bearing down on Boeing and could costthe company 90 commercial jet orders over the next five years.
Butthe Asia-Pacific region will regain long-term economic health,remaining the world's largest market for passenger airplanes,Boeing's vice president for marketing predicted Thursday.Boeing's annual look 20 years into the future shows thatAsia-Pacific airlines will buy 4,760 new commercial jets, worth$427 billion.
That's compared with $332 billion worth of aircraftfrom North America and $345 billion in Europe.
China alone isexpected to buy 1,800 new aircraft worth $125 billion over the nexttwo decades.He said several Asian airlines have requested help from Boeingin financing new airplane orders and some have postponed takingdelivery of their new jets because they can't afford them.He said some Asian economies will fall into a recession in thenext 12 to 18 months, though historical growth trends will returnin four or five years.But he said Asian carriers likely will buy 150 fewer airplanes 90 from Boeing and 60 from rival Airbus Industrie over the nextfive years because of slower growth in the current downturn.
Hebased his prediction on the assumption that Boeing will retain itstraditional 60 percent of the worldwide jetliner market.Sixty of the Boeing deliveries to be affected will be widebodyaircraft such as the 747 jumbo jet, the 767 and the 777, all ofwhich are built in Everett.Because of the reduced demand for widebodies, Boeing recentlyannounced it will lower monthly production of its largest model,the jumbo 747, to 3.5 in mid-1999 from five currently.Published annually by Boeing, the 20-year forecast is used bythe company's customers and suppliers to gauge future growth in theindustry.The outlook predicts Latin America will be the fastest-growingair travel market over the next 20 years at an annual rate of 7.4percent.
Latin America's airlines are expected to add 1,410 newjets, valued at $77 billion, in that time.The company's outlook indicated European travel growth will be4.1 percent a year, with airlines adding 4,990 new jets, valued at$345 billion, in the next 20 years.For the North American market, traffic growth has decreased from3.1 percent last year to 2.9 percent in 1998.
The outlook estimatesthe region's airlines will add 5,580 new jets, worth $332 billion,over the next two decades.Boeing believes that small airplanes will capture the largestsegment of the market over the next 20 years.The forecast projects seven out of 10 airplanes delivered duringthe next two decades will be single-aisle airplanes the size ofthe California-built Boeing 717, and the Renton-built 737 and 757.They will account for 43 percent of the dollars invested in newairplanes, or 12,260 airplanes.Intermediate-size airplanes, such as the Boeing 767 and 777,will represent one out of four future airplane deliveries and willaccount for 44 percent of the dollars invested in new airplanes, or4,360 jets.The report estimates the smallest market segment, 747-size orlarger airplanes, will total 15 percent of the dollars invested innew jetliners, or 1,030 airplanes.Airbus disagrees and is planning a new superjumbo jet dubbed theA3XX that could cost $12 billion to develop and would breakBoeing's monopoly in the market for planes seating more than 400passengers.While the report did not address employment, Dennis said Boeinghas not changed its previously announced plans to reduce itsworkforce by 20,000 over the next two years, mostly throughattrition.GARDEN CITY, N.Y. State Comptroller H. Carl McCall hasorganized a coalition of major stockholders in Marketspan Corp.seeking to remove its chairman, Dr. William Catacosinos, because ofthe growing controversy over his compensation.But a Marketspan spokesman, Joseph McDonnell, said thatCatacosinos still has the confidence of other investorsrepresenting far more shares than the coalition does.McCall's move opens a new front in the battle over the $67million in special compensation that Catacosinos and 25 other topexecutives of Long Island Lighting Co. took before it disbanded ina complex deal on May 28.
The state's Long Island Power Authoritytook over LILCO's electricity service.
The rest of LILCO mergedwith the Brooklyn Union Gas holding company to form Marketspan,which the authority hired to run the electric system.TRENTON, N.J.
Faced with growing opposition from lawmakersover her plan to raise the gasoline tax to pay for preserving 1million acres of farmland and undeveloped land over the next 10years, Gov.
Christie Whitman said Thursday that she was consideringother ways to finance the program.Whitman said that she was not abandoning her gasoline-taxproposal, but she acknowledged that her aides were discussingfinancing alternatives with legislative staff members.Whitman aides said that one plan under discussion would involvethe state's borrowing $1 billion over the next 20 years to buy theland during the next decade.
The cost would be about $92 million ayear, to be paid from existing state revenue.
In addition, thestate would spend another $445 million over 10 years to acquireopen space.The gasoline tax now stands at 14.5 cents per gallon.
Whitmanhas been seeking legislative approval to put a 7-cent-a-gallonincrease on the ballot this November.
She has proposed using 5cents of the increase for transportation projects and 2 cents tobuy open space.Her aides are continuing to push for the tax increase fortransportation projects.
While state lawmakers have expressedsupport for raising the tax for that purpose, there has been littleenthusiasm among Republicans or Democrats for raising the tax topay for open space preservation.Whitman is likely to win more support for her borrowing proposalthan for the tax increase to meet her goal of preserving half ofthe state's remaining two million acres of open space.
In theRepublican-controlled Senate, lawmakers have been pushinglegislation that would put a $210 million bond proposal beforevoters in November for open space preservation.Whitman, who has been promoting the gas-tax proposal at frequentappearances around the state, took her campaign Thursday to a farmin Lawrence Township that was made part of the state's farmlandpreservation program.
She talked about the importance of farmlandpreservation, but did not bring up her gas-tax plan until asked byreporters.Yet in their silver-screen debut a $70 million, two-houraction-packed adventure that opens today Scully and Mulder arenot traveling to a land where no man has gone before.According to ACNielsen EDI research, the average gross formovies made from television shows this decade is $60.6 million.
Theaverage for all other films in wide release is $35.2 million.If the celebration turns out to be profitable, the possibilitiesfor television producers who want to make movies is nearly endless,Borys said.But Borys doesn't think just anyone can do it.
Sitcoms couldn'tmake the translation, he said.NEW YORK Finding that young surgeons at New York UniversityMedical Center were working far more hours than the law allows insome cases up to 130 hours a week state health officials finedthe hospital $16,000 Thursday.It was the first time that the state fined a hospitalspecifically for violating the decade-old law aimed at protectingpatients from doctors who are overworked or deprived of sleep.
Buthealth officials, under increasing criticism for not enforcing theregulations, warned last month that they were stepping up the paceof inspections and would punish offenders.New York Medical Center, one of the city's most prestigioushospitals, became the first to be fined under the state's newvigilance.
An inspection there in mid-May found that 10 of 18surgical residents worked more than the 80-hour limit, and 12 ofthem worked 30 to 36 hours straight.
The law bars residents fromworking more than 24 hours straight.The state investigation found the violations only in thesurgical training programs, with the cardiac-surgery department theworst.
All four first-year cardiac residents were found to beworking between 110 and 130 hours a week.The hospital released a statement acknowledging the problem andsaying that it has formed a committee to make sure that it followsthe law.But the statement also noted that the problem existed at otherinstitutions.
In May, after several months of mounting criticismfrom medical experts, in newspaper articles and from other publicofficials, Dr. DeBuono completed an investigation of 12 hospitals many of them among the best in the state and determined that all12 were violating the laws.The day the report was released, Dr. DeBuono sent investigatorsto three other hospitals, including New York University MedicalCenter, and found only NYU had violated the laws, passed in 1989.The driving force behind those laws, Dr. Bertrand Bell, praisedthe fine and Dr. DeBuono's initiative on Thursday, even as he doledout a measure of criticism.GRAND PRAIRIE, Texas When the lights come up tonight at LoneStar Park at Grand Prairie, there is the inevitable presumptionthat some of the participants are old enough to be put to stud.At the NTRA All-Star Jockey Championship, they'll be checkingbirth certificates only on the horses, thank you.
Bailey, born inDallas and raised in El Paso, will turn 41 this summer and hassaddled more than 4,300 winners.Bailey's record, like Pincay's and Delahoussaye's and all of the40-something set's, more than substantiates that.
They don't rideon the seniors circuit and their winners don't pay off in Dependscoupons.Once upon a time, a betting man might have wagered that not alljockeys would live into their 40s, let alone win in them.
Baileyhas heard the old stories, too.Bailey rides six horses a day, five days a week, about 48 weeksa year.
He has been averaging 1,100 to 1,200 rides each calendaryear.He rides in New York, because all the great ones, sooner orlater, tend to gravitate to the New York, Kentucky or Californiatracks.It isn't Texas.
But Bailey has earned enough his mounts'winning purses last year totaled nearly $16 million that he hasbeen able to buy himself some Texas-sized elbow room on LongIsland.Though he was born in Dallas, Bailey moved to El Paso with hisfamily before he had turned 3.
His father, a dentist, bought a ponyfor the back yard.At 17, he began riding professionally at Sunland Park in NewMexico.
His first winner was named Fetch.
But his greatest winnerwas the legendary Cigar.From October 1994 until August 1996, Cigar won 16 races withoutlosing.
The streak equaled Citation's as the longest by any NorthAmerican-based horse in the 20th century.
Bailey was aboard Cigarfor 15 of those 16 victories.Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, acompany that advises institutional investors on legal terms, saidshe is not surprised that producers have decided to take theirchances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewedcourtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general tojump-start their lawsuits against producers.
A large majority ofthe states involved in last June's plan were late in suingproducers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to wincongressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over thepast year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in alawsuit against a cigarette company.
Such a bill, which effectivelyallows a state to recover collectively rather than pressingindividual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was consideredinstrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billionsettlement with the industry last August.Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, saidthat while some states have lost ground waiting to see whatCongress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceedingactively.Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try andrestart settlement negotiations between the industry and some stateattorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks verypreliminary.Ms.
Aronson and other legal experts added that while theybelieved the industry could overcome many of the claims filedagainst it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers andunion health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the firsttime.
And while those actions might not initially succeed, thesuccess of one could open the door for others.In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and thesteady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs abouttobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.Aronson and others added.ALBANY, N.Y. With just hours left in the legislative session,leaders of the state Assembly on Thursday dropped their oppositionto a measure requiring that the names of HIV-positive people bereported to the state and mandating that government health workersask infected people to name their sexual partners so that they canbe notified that they are at risk.The Republican-controlled Senate on Thursday night passed thebill by a vote of 55-6, and a large majority of Assembly membersare known to favor the measure, which has been kept from a vote bythe leadership in recent years.
Gov.
George Pataki, a Republican,also favors the bill in concept, but aides said he would notcomment on it until his lawyers had read it.In addition to the HIV tracking measure, legislative leadersalso agreed to create an appeals process for people who are deniedhealth insurance and to expand health care for poor children.But as the Senate and Assembly met late into the night toconclude what many legislators called a singularly unproductiveyear, leaders of the two houses and Pataki failed to agree on awide range of measures that appeared possible, even likely, asrecently as a day or two ago: ending parole for violent felons,establishing charter schools, consolidation of the state'smultilayered court system, allowing dairy farmers to charge morefor milk, and permitting mutual insurance companies to sellbillions of dollars in stock.But it was a bitter internal fight over HIV legislation amongthe Democrats who control the Assembly that occupied much of thelast two days in that house, and provided the greatest drama on thefinal day.After years of resisting the concept, the Democrats who controlthe Assembly said their house would pass the bill requiringreporting, by name, of people infected with the AIDS virus, to thestate Health Department, which would keep a central registry of thenames of infected people.Local health agencies would be required to interview all peoplereported as testing positive, ask them to name their sexualpartners, and then warn those partners that they have been exposedto the virus.
But the law would not penalize anyone who refused todivulge the names of their sexual partners.Twenty-eight other states, including New Jersey, already trackHIV cases by name, but many of those do not mandate the tracing ofcontacts.
Passage of the measure in New York would be significantsince it has the nation's highest rate of reported AIDS cases.Public health officials have said that reporting by name andtracing contacts are needed to make sure that people are aware thatthey have been exposed to the virus, in part to reduce the risk ofspreading the infection.
Early detection of the virus is consideredincreasingly important since a new class of AIDS drugs calledprotease inhibitors has proven effective in treating the disease inmany people.AIDS-treatment advocacy groups have fought the measure, arguingthat it would discourage people from being tested and seekingtreatment.
Some said patients could be effectively tracked withoutusing their names, by assigning them identification codes.
Butsupporters of the bill said such a system would be cumbersome andmight hinder the ability to track the spread of the disease.It has long been clear that such a bill had enough votes to passthe Assembly nearly all the 53 Republicans and most of the 97Democrats favor it but Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver kept itfrom coming to a vote for years.The bill's sponsor, Assemblywoman Nettie Mayersohn, a QueensDemocrat, has been a loud and relentless advocate, spending yearstrying to embarrass Silver into allowing a vote.
And many Assemblymembers have said the public pressure on them to act grew greatlywith the news last fall that one man, Nushawn Williams, hadinfected more than a dozen women and girls in small towns inwestern New York.On the last day of the legislative session, Silver gave in topressure from other Democrats.
Many genuinely supported themeasure, while others feared their failure to act on it would beused against them as a campaign issue by Republicans.
Silvernegotiated some minor changes with Ms. Mayersohn, then freedlegislators to vote as they pleased.
The bill squeaked through twocommittees, by votes of 11 to 10, before going to the floor.Despite the resolution of the AIDS issue, many legislatorsexpressed disappointment about a session that seemed much morepromising months ago.
In April, many lawmakers were euphoric afterthe Legislature enacted the least-tardy state budget in five years.For the first time, the budget was hammered out in conferencecommittees, with the involvement of many rank-and-file legislators,rather than in secret meetings among state leaders.But for those same lawmakers, the last seven weeks of thesession and the final 48 hours in particular were a distinctletdown.
Pataki, who is running for re-election, took much of thewind out of the Legislature's sails by vetoing $1.6 billion inspending it had approved, and the rest of the session sank into amorass of recriminations and election-year politicking.One of the final deals made by lawmakers strikes at healthinsurers that deny people coverage for treatment, whose only optionis to appeal the insurer.
Instead, the agreement reached by Silver,Pataki and Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno would allow patientsto appeal a denial of treatment including of experimentaltreatments to an independent arbiter chosen by the state HealthDepartment.
Both houses were expected to approve the bill Thursdaynight.The bill could neutralize what was shaping up to be an issue inthe gubernatorial race.
Lt. Gov.
Betsy McCaughey Ross, Pataki'sformer protegee who hopes to run against him as a Democrat, hasmade attacks on health maintenance organizations and calls for anoutside appeals process a centerpiece of her campaign, and some ofthe other Democrats in the race have joined in.Silver, Pataki and Bruno also agreed on an expansion of thestate's health care program for children of low-income families,which will be paid for by New York's share of a $24 billion federalgrant program established last year.
About 420,000 children areeligible for the program, but fewer than half that number areenrolled.The state program, called Child Health Plus, makes healthcoverage available at little or no cost.
Income limits would beraised from $35,000 a year for a family of four, for example, to$40,000 expanding eligibility by about 35,000 children.
It wouldalso lower the fees charged to some families, and move somechildren in the program into Medicaid, the federal health program,giving them a wider range of benefits.The most prominent proposal to fade away in the waning hours,and the one Pataki had pressed for most vigorously, was one thatwould have ended parole boards' ability to release violent felonsfrom prison early.
Under the measure, felons would have beenrequired to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.As with many of the issues taken up this year, the DemocraticAssembly leaders were reluctant to go along, but were aware thatthe governor's position was popular, and that Democrats might pay aprice at the polls for opposing it.In the second-to-last week of the session, Silver said he wouldaccept the parole provision if it were linked to expanded educationprograms in prisons and to laws allowing some felons to besentenced to drug treatment programs rather than prison.
Pataki andBruno rejected those conditions, and despite negotiations thatcontinued far into the night Thursday, no compromise was reached.The governor was the chief advocate for several other ideas thatdied in the last few days, like casino gambling and creatingso-called charter schools, public schools with particular missionsthat operate largely independent of the usual bureaucracy.
TheAssembly Democrats and their allies, the teachers' unions, opposedthe governor's charter schools proposal, and while they insistedthey were open to some other version, there was little evidence ofa middle ground they would accept.Pataki also wanted to see a change in law to allow mutualinsurance companies, which are technically owned by theirpolicyholders, to sell stock to outsiders with limited compensationto policyholders.
Under current law, a mutual insurance company cansell stock but the policyholders must get most of it.
The Assemblyleaders negotiated with the insurers until late Thursday, but nodeal was reached.CLEVELAND If there was any doubt whether Orlando Hernandez isgood enough to face good teams, he put it to rest Thursday night,when he pitched seven and two-thirds strong innings against theCleveland Indians.Hernandez was out of the game before the Yankees won, 5-2,snapping a tie in the ninth inning when Scott Brosius drew abases-loaded walk with an 11-pitch at-bat and then adding two moreruns.
But Hernandez confirmed the Yankees' belief in him, and theirdecision to keep him in the rotation and move Ramiro Mendoza to thebullpen.The Yankees had the bases loaded and one out in the ninth, andIndians reliever Mike Jackson struck out Chad Curtis for the secondout.
Brosius beat out what appeared to be a run-scoring infieldhit, but Tim Tschida, the home-plate umpire, ruled the ball wasfoul, prompting a lengthy argument with Joe Torre, the Yankeemanager.After Brosius resumed his at-bat he fouled off five two-strikepitches before taking the walk that scored pinch-runner Homer Bushwith the lead run.
A single and an error added two more runs in theinning.Hernandez was initially scheduled to pitch against Baltimore onMonday, and quite logically, the Indians did not send an advancescout to watch El Duque's last start, in Montreal on June 9.
TheYankees had two rainouts last weekend, Hernandez's subsequent startwas postponed, and the Indians then were left to examine videotapeof his previous outings, to look for patterns or tendencies or anysort of clue to identify when and what Hernandez would throw.They might have had more luck finding the Loch Ness Monster.Hernandez, in his third major league start, mystified the Indianscompletely with his cheek-high Bruce Lee leg kick, the gold chainand cross dangling from his neck, his instinctual feel forconfusing batters.Most starters become more vulnerable as the game progresses, asopposing hitters begin to time their fastballs and better recognizethe off-speed stuff.
But in the case of Hernandez, informationalmost seems to be counter-productive; the Indians grew morebaffled inning to inning, at-bat to at-bat, as they guessedincorrectly what Hernandez might try next.Cleveland was at an immediate disadvantage against Hernandez,even before the Indians' first at-bat.
Charles Nagy, the Clevelandstarter, threw two low curveballs that Tschida called for strikes;these parameters of the strike zone could not have been bettersuited for Hernandez, who throws many types of breaking balls thatspin low.The Indians had seven hits and three walks during Hernandez'sseven innings, but until his final inning of work, he seemed to becompletely in control.
Torre wondered aloud last week how Hernandezwould respond to pressure.
This is his answer: Cleveland washitless in its first eight at-bats with runners in scoringposition, Hernandez throwing curves, sliders, changeups andfastballs from all different angles.
Twice Cleveland manager MikeHargrove griped to the umpires about how Hernandez wiggled hisfingers when working from the set position, probably an attempt torattle the rookie.
But Hernandez would not be bothered.The Indians had a runner at third and one out in the thirdinning, and Hernandez whiffed Manny Ramirez and Jim Thome, with aslider and changeup, respectively.
The Indians had another runnerat third and one out the next inning; Hernandez struck out MarkWhiten and Pat Borders.Hernandez carried a 2-0 lead into the seventh, allowing a walkand a single to open the inning.
Borders stared at a third-strikefastball, David Bell grounded out, advancing the runners andbringing Kenny Lofton to the plate.
Lofton, who seemed to be theonly Cleveland batter remotely comfortable hitting againstHernandez, fouled off three pitches with two strikes, before lininga two-run single to right and tying the game.Hernandez retired the first two batters in the eighth, jammingRamirez so badly with a fastball that the right fielder fellbackward in the batter's box as the ball trickled up the first baseline where Hernandez, charging off the mound, gloved it justbefore it edged foul, and ran to stomp on the bag himself.Having thrown 122 pitches to that point, however, Hernandez waslifted.
He lowered his earned run average to 1.52.
He has allowed16 hits and 6 walks in his first 23 2/3 innings.Derek Jeter, in the final step of rehabilitating his abdominalstrain, played for Class AAA Columbus Thursday night, in Durham,N.C., and hit two doubles and struck out in four at-bats.
He made athrowing error for the Clippers; interestingly, he hasn't made asingle throwing error for the Yankees.
Jeter is expected to jointhe Yankees Friday and play against Cleveland, after beingactivated off the 15-day disabled list.Mary Aronson, the president of Aronson Washington Research, acompany that advises institutional investors on legal terms, saidshe is not surprised that producers have decided to take theirchances in the courtroom, at least in the short term.The collapse of the McCain bill and the prospect of renewedcourtroom conflict will cause many state attorneys general tojump-start their lawsuits against producers.
A large majority ofthe states involved in last June's plan were late in suingproducers and many of those states, expecting the settlement to wincongressional approval, have not done much pretrial work.Legislators in just a few states have introduced bills over thepast year that would make it easier for a state to prevail in alawsuit against a cigarette company.
Such a bill, which effectivelyallows a state to recover collectively rather than pressingindividual claims on behalf of every smoker treated, was consideredinstrumental in Florida's ability to negotiate an $11.3 billionsettlement with the industry last August.Bob Habush, a lawyer who represents the state of Wisconsin, saidthat while some states have lost ground waiting to see whatCongress would do, others like Wisconsin have been proceedingactively.Some initial settlement efforts have been made to try andrestart settlement negotiations between the industry and some stateattorneys general, but one industry lawyer called the talks verypreliminary.Ms.
Aronson and other legal experts added that while theybelieved the industry could overcome many of the claims filedagainst it, the legal landscape remained troubling for producers.They pointed out that new claimants like health insurers andunion health plans were assaulting cigarette makers for the firsttime.
And while those actions might not initially succeed, thesuccess of one could open the door for others.In addition, the outpouring of secret industry documents and thesteady drumbeat of negative articles and television programs abouttobacco producers was likely to have an impact on jurors, Ms.Aronson and others added.NEW YORK With less than three months left before 14,0004-year-olds are supposed to begin new prekindergarten classesestablished by the state, New York City's overcrowded public schoolsystem is planning to enroll a third of those children in privateand parochial preschools.Unable to squeeze the preschoolers into public schools rippingat the seams, officials expect to use public funds to educate about5,000 children in private schools.
It is a rare example of thecity's public school system relying on the private sector for basicacademic services; the only precedents are smaller programs incounseling and tutoring.The state law that established prekindergarten classesencouraged local school districts to draw up contracts with privatepreschools.
The law requires each district to devote at least 10percent of its funds to contracts with private agencies, andeducation officials in Albany said the requirement was addedbecause they knew many districts would be unable to find the spaceor the qualified teachers on their own.
The private preschoolindustry, worried about losing business, also lobbied heavily inAlbany.When state lawmakers enacted the law establishing the $500million program last summer, they allocated money for teachers andaides, but none for construction, despite the space problem.Since then, translating the language of the law into reality hasflummoxed school officials across the state, especially in New YorkCity, which now expects to be spending 35 percent of its stateallocation for the program on private and parochial schools.Indeed, the story of prekindergarten in New York is emerging asthe story of good intentions crashing into difficult realities.In some areas of the city, parents have been unable to submitapplications for their preschoolers because district officials havenot picked the private preschools they will use.
Bathrooms andplaygrounds are still being inspected, teacher credentials reviewedand classrooms observed.As school officials have discovered, conditions at privatepreschools vary widely.
Dirty floors and a dearth of books at a daycare center on the ground floor of an East New York housing projectdismayed one superintendent, while the emphasis on penmanship at apreschool in northern Queens troubled another district official,who considered the school's approach too rigid.And recently, a new complication was unearthed: When a Brooklynsuperintendent showed up to inspect a yeshiva, it was closed for areligious holiday, revealing the potential chaos that mismatchedschool calendars could create for working parents.Still, most educators unequivocally embrace the concept ofpreschool education, not just in New York but around the UnitedStates.
A survey taken last year by the Children's Defense Fund, anadvocacy group based in Washington, found that 21 states hadincreased financing of preschool programs, most of them intendedfor poor children.Last year, the New Jersey Legislature set aside $125 million forprekindergarten classes in 125 of the state's poorest schooldistricts.
In Connecticut, lawmakers agreed last year to spend $86million over two years on prekindergarten classes in more than adozen poor, mostly urban districts.When the universal prekindergarten law was enacted a year ago,it drew bipartisan support from lawmakers, and got a strong boostfrom Lt. Gov.
Betsy McCaughey Ross.
The program is voluntary forparents.
New York City's Board of Education voted to require eachof its 32 districts to provide the classes.Champions of the program cited research pointing to thelong-term benefits of early education.
For instance, studies ofHead Start, the federally financed prekindergarten program for poorchildren, showed that preschoolers enrolled in the programinitially showed measurable improvements in health, schoolattendance and cognitive test scores.
The gains in cognitive testscores, however, faded after a couple of years.The program is financed with $46 million in state funds for the1988-89 school year, matched by $5 million from the Board ofEducation.
Unlike Head Start, which is limited to needy children,New York's prekindergarten program is available to childrenregardless of their family income, though in the first year onlydistricts with the largest percentage of poor children includingall New York City districts are eligible.Private preschools that want contracts with the city schoolsystem must be licensed by the city, and they cannot offerreligious instruction.
Any parochial schools involved in the newprogram will, under the state law, have to scrub classroom walls ofreligious icons and agree to a secular curriculum.Given the stipulations, several private agencies, includingschools run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, havepassed up the offer.The privatization issue has not drawn opposition from theteachers' union.
An estimated 225 teachers will be hired toinstruct children in prekindergarten.Although enrollment is optional for parents, each of the city'sschool districts will be required to accommodate 16 percent oftheir estimated population of 4-year-olds, or a citywide total of14,000 children.Five of the most overcrowded districts have yet to find room intheir buildings or in private preschools to accommodate their shareof prekindergartners in the fall, though Board of Educationofficials say they are optimistic that room will be found soon.Those five are District 6 in upper Manhattan, Districts 9 and 11in the Bronx and Districts 24 and 29 in Queens.Most districts are selecting students either by lottery or on afirst-come-first-served basis.
The state law mandates thatdistricts gradually expand the number of slots so that by fall2002, any 4-year-old can enroll in a prekindergarten class.But accommodating all children whose parents want them in theprogram by 2002 is likely to be a formidable challenge, given thelack of new school buildings and parallel state legislationrequiring cuts in class size beginning in fall 1999.For prekindergarten alone, 30,000 seats, or 1,750 classrooms,would have to be built or found by 2002, according to estimates bythe Board of Education.
To reduce class size, 45,552 more seats more than 2,000 classrooms would be required.
This fall, theboard will open six new schools with about 5,000 seats.District 19 on the eastern fringe of Brooklyn, for example, haslittle room for prekindergarten in its Cypress Hills neighborhood,the densely populated northern part of the district where schoolsare already so crowded that kindergartners are bused to StarrettCity, several miles south.Touring his district and looking for prekindergarten space theother day, Superintendent Robert Riccobono said he wondered whetherparents in Cypress Hills would shepherd their children to thesouthern end of the district, where there is ample space forprekindergarten: Within a two-block radius in Starrett City, he hadfound a public school that could house a couple of prekindergartenclasses, as well as a yeshiva and a secular preschool.But space is not the sole concern.
Although licensed privatepreschools, like the public schools, have state-certifiedearly-childhood teachers, there is a great variety in theconditions and philosophy of each preschool.On a tour the other day, Riccobono found one preschool, on theground floor of a housing project in the East New York section ofBrooklyn, practically devoid of books and instructional suppliesand floors that needed a thorough cleaning.
Still, he chose thepreschool after concluding that the problems were easily fixable.Around the state, 124 of about 700 school districts those withthe largest share of poor children are eligible in the firstyear, and of those, 80 are participating.
School districts will bephased in based on their percentage of poor children, and by thefourth year, all districts will be eligible.Other districts are also facing problems implementing theprogram.
In small, growing cities like Gloversville, west ofAlbany, school officials are having trouble finding enough schoolbuildings or licensed day-care centers to accommodate the risingstudent enrollment, state education officials said.
In East Aurora,in western New York, school districts are negotiating with amammoth day-care center run by the toy company Fisher Price.Several cities are looking for empty rooms in state buildings.In New York City, the demand for the state-financedprekindergarten classes is hard to gauge, though it is well knownthat the day-care crunch is particularly intense for the city'sworking poor: There are 36,000 children on a waiting list forcity-subsidized day-care slots.MONTREAL Luis Lopez, who is normally an infielder, had noproblem at all with any of the fly balls hit his way Thursday nightin his first major league start in right field.
Instead, it was aground ball that proved tricky for Lopez, and that played a keyrole in helping the Montreal Expos beat the Mets, 7-6.Lopez's misplay, as well as the inability of Rey Ordonez todrive someone home with one out and at least one runner in scoringposition in the fifth and sixth innings, were what hurt the Metsthe most.
Ordonez popped out to short with Edgardo Alfonzo on thirdin the fifth and grounded to third and into a double play with thebases loaded in the sixth.The Mets, whose last four losses have each been by one run, didscore three times in the sixth off the Montreal rookie JavierVazquez to erase a 2-0 deficit.
But Masato Yoshii (4-3), who hadallowed home runs to Vladimir Guerrero and Rondell White in thefirst two innings, could not hold the lead.In the Expos' sixth, Lopez let a bases-loaded single by MarkGrudzielanek get under his glove for a two-base error, which led toa five-run inning that made it 7-3 and pretty much doomed the Mets.Lopez was playing right field because Bernard Gilkey is stillhaving problems with his left eye a week after being hit by a pitchin the face and because Butch Huskey's aching right knee neededsome rest.The loss left the Mets (38-29) with a 3-4 finish to theireight-day journey to Florida and Montreal, two of the weakest teamsin the National League.
Yoshii was charged with 7 runs on sevenhits in five and a third innings against the weakest-hitting lineupin the NL, his worst outing as a major leaguer.That Yoshii was not at his sharpest was evident early, whenGuerrero homered with two out in the first inning and then Whitewent deep to lead off the second.
But Yoshii was able to hold theExpos scoreless for the next three innings, while the Metsattempted to figure Vazquez out.The 21-year-old right-hander, who had a 1-6 record and a 6.00earned run average, scattered four hits on his first two timesthrough the Mets' order.The third time through was the charm for the Mets, however.
Fiveconsecutive hits a Matt Franco single, a Mike Piazza double, aJohn Olerud single for two runs, a Carlos Baerga single and anAlfonzo double for a third run built a 3-2 lead for the Mets.
ButOrdonez failed with the bases loaded against reliever ShayneBennett, and then Yoshii let the lead slip away.The Expos sent 11 batters to the plate in their sixth.
Yoshiiopened the inning by getting Jose Vidro on a called third strike.But Guerrero followed with a double, Brad Fullmer singled him tothird and White walked on a 3-2 pitch to fill the bases.The next batter, Grudzielanek, rifled a run-scoring single toright on the artificial turf, past a diving Baerga at second base.Lopez charged the ball sensing a play at home.
Instead, the ballkicked off his glove and went to the wall.
Three runners scored,Grudzielanek wound up at third base and the Expos had a 5-3 lead.By the time the inning was over, it was 7-3 with these numbers:three hits off Yoshii; five walks shared by Yoshii and TurkWendell; one botched rundown after Wendell had picked Chris Widgeroff first base, and Lopez's two-base error.The Mets did answer with another three-run rally in the seventhas Piazza Piazza provided a run-scoring double, his second of thegame, and Baerga singled for two runs.
It pulled the Mets to within7-6.But Guerrero robbed Alfonzo of extra bases and what would havebeen his fourth hit of the game with a running catch inright-center field to end the uprising, and the Expos held on towin.NEW YORK Three years before a New York City police officer,Francis Livoti, was accused in the choking death of Anthony Baezduring a 1994 arrest in the Bronx, his commanding officerrecommended that he be transferred because of the number of policebrutality complaints against him.The department did not follow the recommendation of Deputy ChiefWilliam Casey, then commander of the 46th Precinct in the Bronx,who described his concerns about Livoti in a recent deposition in apending civil lawsuit against the Police Department by the Baezfamily.In the deposition, Casey testified that he also changed Livoti'sshift, gave him a new partner, talked with him and recommended tohim that he undergo psychological counseling.Livoti is currently on trial in U.S. District Court in Manhattanon a charge of depriving Baez of his civil rights.
In October 1996,he was acquitted of state charges of criminally negligent homicidein Baez's death.
The acquittal ignited street protests in the Bronxand focused more attention on the issue of police brutality.
InFebruary 1997, after a separate administrative trial, the PoliceDepartment dismissed Livoti from the force after finding that hehad used an illegal and deadly choke hold on Baez.The lawyer for Livoti, Stuart London, who has said that hisclient denies all wrongdoing in the Baez case as well as in othercivilian complaints, did not return calls to his pager last night.But the testimony by Casey shows that, as early as 1991,high-level police officials were aware of the concerns about Livotiand did not take action.Thursday, the government continued to present its civil rightscase against Livoti; the trial has included testimony from membersof Baez's family that they saw Livoti grab Baez around the neck.
Inthe early morning hours of Dec. 22, 1994, Baez, 29, was tossing afootball with his three brothers near their childhood home in theUniversity Heights section of the Bronx, where Baez was visitingfrom his home in Florida.
When the brothers' football hit a patrolcar repeatedly, Livoti got out of his car and confronted thebrothers in an incident that ultimately led to the struggle inwhich prosecutors say Livoti choked Baez.
Baez died shortlythereafterCasey's testimony in the deposition also points to the influencethat the police union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, hasin disciplinary matters.
Casey testified that his case for Livoti'stransfer had to be even stronger because the officer was theprecinct's union delegate.Parts of the chief's deposition remain sealed under an orderfrom Justice McKeon.
A lawyer for the Baez family, Susan Karten,declined to make a copy available or to discuss it, citing thejudge's order.Casey, who is assigned to the Department's organized-crimecontrol bureau, referred a request for comment to a Departmentspokeswoman, who declined to comment.Lawyers defending New York City in the Baez family's civil suithave sought to keep Casey's testimony out of the public record,requesting the confidentiality order and objecting in a hearingApril 7 before McKeon when one of the family's lawyers referredbriefly to the transfer recommendation.In his deposition, Casey said that Livoti was the first officerhe had ever tried to transfer, and that he had done a full analysisof Livoti's civilian complaint record.
Although details of thatrecord were not available Tuesday, federal prosecutors, in courtpapers, have described one incident which the jury will not hearabout in court that predates the chief's June 1991 recommendationto transfer Livoti.In that September 1990 incident, according to the court papers,Livoti was arresting a man, Ivan Cruz, and twisting his arm behindhis back when a second man, Manuel Bordoy, approached and toldLivoti that he was being unnecessarily rough.
The two men werereturning home to the Bronx from a nightclub in Manhattan.According to the government's account which Livoti denies hethen punched Bordoy twice in the face, breaking his jaw in threeplaces.CLEVELAND As he decides how to approach the appeal of hisfive-game suspension, Mike Stanton may have to choose betweenhonoring his principles and doing what is most advantageous for theNew York Yankees.Gene Budig, the American League president, imposed a five-gamesuspension and $1,000 fine on Stanton, contending that he purposelyhit Baltimore's Eric Davis with a pitch on Monday.Stanton adamantly denies he did anything of the sort, and hesays that he intends to aggressively appeal the suspension, whichis scheduled to begin Wednesday.Stanton wants to establish all the way through the process thathe disagrees strongly with the decision, and that he did not targetDavis.
And there is always the chance that Budig will reduce thepenalty once he meets with Stanton.On the other hand, Stanton could take the same approach thatDarryl Strawberry and Graeme Lloyd did last month and try to timethe suspension so that it leaves the Yankees in the best possiblecompetitive situation.It would best suit the Yankees if Stanton remained available forthe four-game series with Cleveland that started Thursday night,and for as many games as possible in the four-game series to beplayed against the Atlanta Braves next week; Stanton isleft-handed, and the Indians and the Braves are loaded withleft-handed hitters, from Cleveland's Jim Thome and David Justiceto Atlanta's Ryan Klesko and Michael Tucker.Looking ahead further, the Mets, who will play host to theYankees from June 26 to 28, have just one front-line left-handedhitter, John Olerud.
On the face of it, the Yankees would be bestserved if Stanton could serve the bulk of his suspension while theteam plays at Shea Stadium.But he is torn.
He wants to make a stand, an opportunity topresent his perspective to Budig.Derek Jeter, in the final step of rehabilitating his abdominalstrain, played shortstop for the Yankees' Class AAA ColumbusClippers Thursday night, in Durham, N.C.
He hit two doubles andstruck out in four at-bats.
He also made a throwing error.Jeter is expected to join the Yankees on Friday and play againstCleveland, after being activated off the 15-day disabled list.Chad Curtis was not in the first lineup posted in the Yankees'clubhouse Thursday.
But after talking to Curtis and examining thestatistics of the Cleveland starter, Charles Nagy, Joe Torrereinserted Curtis in center field.
He was 1 for 3.A columnist at The Boston Globe, a Pulitzer Prize finalist,fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this year,and the newspaper has asked for her resignation, The Globeannounced Thursday.In one case, she made up nearly an entire column about a womandying of cancer, the newspaper said.Storin said he had yet to receive Ms. Smith's letter ofresignation.
But in Ms. Smith's final column, published in Friday'sissue of The Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Co., sheacknowledges her misdeeds.Ms.
Smith did not respond to messages left on her voice mail atwork, and her home telephone was out of service.
Her lawyer, JohnWilliams of the Boston firm Palmer Dodge, also did not respond tovoice-mail messages.This was the second time in Ms. Smith's career that hercredibility had come under fire.
As an editorial assistant at TheChicago Sun-Times in the late 1980s, she wrote a review of aconcert that she had not attended, a former colleague recalled.
Thenewspaper ran a correction, but she was not dismissed.The revelations about Ms. Smith come just a week after The NewRepublic published the results of an investigation into the work ofStephen Glass, a staff writer, who it said had fabricated parts orall of 27 of the 41 articles he wrote for the magazine in two and ahalf years.The Globe said it discovered Ms. Smith's fabrications two weeksago during normal monitoring by senior editors.
Under the system,which Storin said he established two and a half years ago, editorsoccasionally double check columnists' sources.He said editors discovered the fabrications earlier this month,while Ms. Smith was on vacation, and confronted her when shereturned.The Globe said Ms. Smith also acknowledged inventing Jim Burke,a worker erecting barricades at the Boston Marathon, in her April20 column; and Claire, for whom Ms. Smith did not give a last name,the subject of a poignant column about a woman with cancer,published on May 11.Ms.
Smith, who began her newspaper career as a typist at TheChicago Daily News, joined The Globe in 1990.
She has been writinga column for the Metro/Region section since 1994.
This year, shewon an award from the American Society of Newspaper Editors for aseries of columns published in 1997.
She was also nominated for aPulitzer Prize for commentary last year.
A poet, she has beenwidely recognized in the Boston arts community for her publicreadings.The Globe said Ms. Smith admitted the fabrications after beingquestioned by Moore.
Storin said that The Globe initially hadquestions about six columns and that Ms. Smith admitted tofabrications in four of them.SAINT-JEAN D'ARDIERES, France He wears his hair to hisshoulders.
He proposed to his wife in the Pacific Ocean surf,holding her with one hand and his surfboard with the other.
Eveninto last year, Frankie Hejduk struggled to determine whether hisprofession would be surfing or soccer.Eighteen months ago, this free spirit was kicked off the U.S.soccer team for missing a team flight to China.
But his searingspeed, boldness in attack and renewed dedication have won him aplace on the World Cup squad.
He provided the only scoring chancein Monday's humbling 2-0 loss to Germany, and is expected to startSunday's crucial match against Iran in Lyons, where the Americanshope that goals will come in bunches, like grapes.When given the nod at halftime on Monday, with the United Statestrailing, 1-0, Hejduk (pronounced HAY-duck) searched for somethingto wrest his team from its timid start.
Baseball players break outthe rally caps, but soccer players don't wear hats, so Hejduk wentto his rally shorts, turning his game pants around, number facingthe back.The night before, he had practiced his trademark reggae dance inhis hotel room, just in case he scored a goal.
And nine minutesinto the second half he launched a diving header that appeared tobe a certain score, only to be thwarted by a desperate reach fromthe German goalkeeper, Andreas Kopke.Against Iran, the Americans will again need his assertiveefforts to get behind what is considered a penetrable defense.
Goalscoring figures prominently in the tie-breaker system used at theWorld Cup.
The Americans feel they must win by at least two goalson Sunday and win or draw against Yugoslavia next Thursday to haveany chance of advancing to the second round.Hejduk is expected to replace Mike Burns at right wing inmidfield, and coach Steve Sampson is considering whether to playwith two forwards instead of one.
The idea is that the Americansmust be aggressive from the beginning and not lie back as they didagainst Germany.Politics continue to swirl around this game the way hot-dogwrappers swirl around ballparks.
But politics don't seem toresonate in the slightest with the 23-year-old Hejduk.
He was only5 in 1979 when the Americans were taken hostage at the U .S.Embassy in Tehran.
At the time, he said, he was into soccer,surfing and recess.He had much the same incredulous reaction in January 1997, whenhe did not hear his watch alarm, and he missed a team flight toChina.
Infuriated, coach Steve Sampson dismissed Hejduk from theteam and planned never to call him back.Hejduk said that, at the time, he wasn't sure whether hepreferred soccer over surfing.
A native of Cardiff, Calif., he hadbeen a state surfing champion in high school.
And he had wanted asurfboard, not room and board at some university, but his parentsconvinced him that a soccer scholarship to UCLA was not anopportunity to be wasted.
Nor, he later realized, was a chance toplay in the 1998 World Cup.Marriage and the birth of a son have brought maturity anddiscipline to Hejduk, according to Sampson, who granted him asecond chance.
And Hejduk says he now sets six alarm clocks insteadof one.His biography was not included in the 1998 soccer team mediaguide.
But Hejduk intrigued Sampson with his tireless running in a1-0 victory over Brazil in February and scored in a 3-0 exhibitionvictory over Austria in April.
Then he missed the final four WorldCup tuneups with a hamstring injury and was nearly cut from theteam.Healthy again, he remains one of the few real American threatswith his ability to sprint ceaselessly down the wing.
Except,perhaps, for Cobi Jones, no one on the team can match Hejduk'senduring speed.
And few demonstrated the absolute fearlessness thathe showed against Germany.The coach has theorized that Hejduk gets his fearlessness insoccer from surfing.
And Hejduk believes there is no othercardiovascular workout so effective.
What do his surfing friendsthink of soccer?
They love it, Hejduk said.Perhaps that is why Payne Stewart was so giddy after a 4-under66 in Thursday's opening round, which was contested under very mildconditions, at least in these parts.
Yep, no wind, no fog and thank goodness no you-know-what.Defending champ Ernie Els also had his putting problems ongreens that, for the most part, were fairly moist and slow byOlympic standards.
His chances for a third national championship inthe past five years looked bleak after a 75.If there was a player who had it on cruise control, it wasCarnevale.
He never made a bogey while carding a 67.Unbelievably, he caught a good lie and managed to smack an8-iron to 12 feet for his fifth and final birdie of the day againstone bogey.Lehman, who has finished third, second and third in the pastthree Opens, was cautiously optimistic about his 68, which includedthree birdies on his last four holes.Knowing how fickle the Olympic Club can be, there seems no otherway to approach it.
Leeland McElroy, a second-round draft pick by the Cardinals in1996, was released Thursday after several attempts to trade himfailed.McElroy, from Texas AM, struggled during his two seasons.
Hebecame expendable with the off-season additions of running backsAdrian Murrell, Mario Bates and draftee Michael Pittman, plus kickreturner/wide receiver Terry Metcalf.Last season, McElroy gained 424 yards on 135 carries for anaverage of 3.1 yards a carry.
He scored two touchdowns and startedeight games for a team that was the NFL's worst rushing team.They have signed all but their top two 1998 draft picks, AndreWadsworth and Corey Chavous, after Thursday's signing of formerArizona State player Pat Tillman, a seventh-round draft pick.
CINCINNATI In the city where the Big Red Machine once ruledthe baseball world, it seemed a bit strange that an expansion teamcould sweep a road series.The Diamondbacks are not quite ready for that kind of notoriety,nor will they be for a few years.But after Thursday's 4-2 victory at Cinergy Field completed athree-game sweep of the Cincinnati Reds, the Diamondbacks hope themomentum carries into the remaining five games of this eight-gametrip.Left-hander Brian Anderson came through with a grittyseven-inning effort in which he held the Reds scoreless on twohits.
He also singled and provided spark on the basepaths byscoring two runs.The victory was achieved in sweltering conditions.
Temperatureat game time was 82, but on the artificial turf it had to be atleast 10-15 degrees higher.
In addition, the game started at 12:35p.m.
local time after a night game Wednesday.Anderson's big day came in front of a group of family andfriends from his home area in northern Ohio while he was battlingthe onset of a cold.As he arrived at the park on Thursday, he got some advice fromright-hander Andy Benes, who kept the Reds in check in similarconditions on Wednesday night by giving up one run on five hits ineight innings.To help him win for the fourth time in his past five starts,Anderson (5-6) also took a page out of the pitching book ofleft-hander Omar Daal, who beat the Reds on Tuesday night.In the third inning, he followed a leadoff double by catcherKelly Stinnett with a sacrifice bunt off right-hander ScottKlingenbeck (1-2).
First baseman Eduardo Perez fielded the ball andtried to get Stinnett at third, but the throw was too late.Anderson advanced to second when Klingenbeck hit Andy Fox with apitch (Fox also was hit by Jeff Shaw in the ninth).
Devon White hita single to center, scoring Stinnett easily.Anderson came steaming into third, slowed when third-base coachBrian Butterfield waited to make the signal and had to shift intohigh gear again when Butterfield waved him home.
Anderson hit thedirt and slid a leg between the shin guards of catcher EddieTaubensee.In the fifth, Anderson led off with an infield hit.
White hit asingle to left-center with one out and Anderson challenged the armof left fielder Dmitri Young, who threw the ball into the dugoutand allowed Anderson to score.After Karim Garcia's ground-rule double made it 4-0 in theeighth, Showalter went to right-hander Russ Springer, who gave uptwo runs on three hits.
Right-hander Gregg Olson rescued Springerby striking out Taubensee to end the inning, then returned in theninth to set down the Reds in order and record his second save intwo games and 10th overall.
Today, Cohn, managing director of the Crowne Plaza Hotel indowntown Phoenix, stands by those words and says the city'sconvention center could be headed for even tougher times.Phoenix Councilman Sal DiCiccio said the Civic Plaza isvulnerable, not only to the East Valley's plans but to those inother cities around the country.Cohn points to an exhibit hall list that placed Phoenix at No.13 in 1990, ranking the size of the country's convention centers.By 1993, Phoenix slipped to 34 and reportedly has fallen evenlower.The prospect of a new convention center that competes with andtakes some business from the Civic Plaza is something Phoenixofficials are watching closely.Cohn noted that the problem for Phoenix officials is not justwhat is happening down the road in the East Valley.He said the size of the Civic Plaza doesn't compare to othercenters in the larger cities, but a look at the whole package showsdowntown amenities from sports arenas to museums within walkingdistance and a recent $32-million face lift.
Two planned downtownhotels should help, he said.But, like Krietor, he said there are other factors to make upfor that disadvantage.Local convention figures show 50 conventions booked into theCivic Plaza in fiscal 1997-98, which ends June 30.
That wouldcompare with 43, 49 and 62 in the previous three years.The city already purchased more than eight acres at the oldPhoenix Union High School campus.
One of the reasons: to possiblyuse it for expansion of the Civic Plaza.If 200,000 or 300,000 square feet of meeting and exhibit spacewere built at the old campus at Seventh Street and Van Buren,Krietor said the plaza could double-book, hosting some events atthe plaza and some at the nearby campus.So when race leaders crashed and fumbled away a victory toWoodside a few weeks back in Kansas, the 27-year-old Valenciadriver knew someday he'd have to give up a win in the same fashion.That day arrived this past Sunday at Altamont Raceway Park inTracy.
Woodside led 198 laps of the 200-lap Spears Manufacturing200 before being taken out in a crash on the turn before thecheckered flag.Woodside started the race on the pole and led all the way untilgetting a late challenge from eventual winner Kevin Harvick andGary Smith.Smith bumped Woodside while taking the lead coming out of turntwo.
Woodside caught him on the outside coming out of turn 3.
Butas the cars went into turn 4, Smith squeezed Woodside up high,bumping him head-on into the wall.While Woodside, Smith and Raudman were skidding around thetrack, Harvick took the checkered flag and retook the series pointslead from Woodside.
Harvick has a five-point advantage, 1,124-1,119over Woodside.
Smith is a distant third at 1,036.Woodside's car took a beating in the crash and is being rebuiltin the North Carolina shop of NASCAR mechanical-whiz RonnieHopkins.If the crash was unfortunate, at least it came at a point in theschedule where Woodside's team will have time to get his car backin shape.Despite his injured ribs, Woodside doesn't want to wait untilJuly for his next race.
He plans to drive in the June 27 NASCARFeatherlite Southwest Tour race at Sears Point.Lengthy lead: Despite a wire-to-wire victory by Prunedale driverDoug McCoun, Granada Hills' M.K.
Kanke padded his FeatherliteSouthwest Tour season points lead with a fourth-place finish inSunday's Altamont 100.Back in the saddle: Defending Trans-Am champion Tom Kendall,without a steady ride for most of this season, will be busy thissummer.In addition to making a final run with the International Race ofChampions all-stars in late July, Kendall will drive Team SABCO'sNo.
46 First Union Chevy Monte Carlo on NASCAR Winston Cup roadcourses at Sears Point (June 28) and Watkins Glen, N.Y. (Aug. 9).Kendall, long one of the stars of American road racing, gets acall almost every year from one Winston Cup team or another lookingfor a driver for the tour's two road-course stops.When not racing, Kendall can be found doing commentary atvarious races.
He will be in Portland, Ore., this weekend, deckedout with a microphone and headset for ESPN's coverage of the FedExChampionship Series Budweiser-G.I.
Joe 200.Nuts and bolts: Wally Dallenbach will take over behind the wheelof the No.
50 Budweiser Winston Cup car for Sunday's Pocono 500.Dallenbach, fired earlier this year by Team SABCO, takes overrelief duty for Ricky Craven, who is recuperating frompost-concussion syndrome. . . . Mojave Desert Racing, Inc. willhold the third of its five race weekends today, Saturday andSunday.
The event's being called the Kar Tek Off Road California200, in Lucerne Valley.
Information: (626) 442-9320.
Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in animpish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating thebirdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-roundlead at the U.S. Open.By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished witha 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale ona day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick roughtinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditionsdifficult for the 156 starters.
Stewart was among nine players whofinished yesterday with under-par scores.Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway and Jose Maria Olazabal,all at 68.
Joe Durant, John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert,a Houston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.Several notables struggled, however.
Past major-championshipwinners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all findthemselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collectedfive birdies and one bogey.
He also drained two par putts frombeyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open.
In1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.Stewart's biggest break came at No.
17, where he hit a driverinto the first cut on the right-hand side.
Figuring he could notreach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tallgrass and caught it flush.
The ball rolled.
And rolled.
And rolled.All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewartdrained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funkychicken dance in celebration.He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected2-iron into the right rough.
From there, Stewart dug out an 8-ironthat skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high andturning toward the hole.
It eventually stopped 12 feet above thehole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie ofthe day.Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman whohas bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18holes without a bogey in the opening round.Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greensin regulation.
He one-putted nine greens, including three forbirdies.CINCINNATI Don't try searching for some special formula toexplain the Diamondbacks' recent winning ways.
There is no secretmethod for success.The biggest reason the Diamondbacks have won three in a row andfour of five begins and ends with their pitching rotation.
Period.You don't need to be some old baseball codger to know pitchinghas been and always will be the difference between winning andlosing at this level.
Everyone who has ever been associated withbaseball knows the game is all about pitching.If you got it, you win.
If you don't, you're the FloridaMarlins.Andy Benes, Willie Blair, Brian Anderson and Omar Daal havepitched about as well as their human bodies are capable in the lastweek.
Since beating St. Louis last Saturday, the four have combinedto produce an almost pea-sized ERA of 1.60 during the five-gamespan.This, folks, is what a top-notch pitching staff looks like.
Payattention to it, because stretches like this don't tend to lastvery long outside of Atlanta.Forget for a moment that the Diamondbacks gained only one gamein the standings entering Thursday's game.
That's not the importantpart of this three-game win streak.This is about a brand-new franchise finding some players it cancount on, which is really what the 1998 season is all about.
Benesis a known quantity.
He will produce his 15 or so victories overthe course of a full season.Blair won a career-best 16 last year and has suffered some hardluck in the form of very few runs along the way to his 2-9 record.Anderson, who pitched seven scoreless innings in Thursdayafternoon's victory, has won four straight decisions to improve to5-6.Daal, probably the biggest surprise of the bunch, is pitching asif he wants no part of the bullpen ever again.
Since replacinginjured Joel Adamson in the rotation, Daal has baffled opponentsand has allowed only two earned runs in his past 17 innings.The Diamondbacks, who one month ago were on a pace to go 44-118,are suddenly on a pace to win 56 games.
They have played above .500in their past 33 games and no longer can be considered thepushovers they were in April.To his credit, Diamondbacks pitching coach Mark Connor has stuckwith his core of starters.
Benes, Blair and Anderson have startedat least 15 games, never missing a turn.Daal has not missed a turn since he was inserted into therotation, and even Jeff Suppan must admit he was given more than afair shake, lasting 11 starts before being sent to Triple-A Tucsonwith his 1-6 record and 7.04 ERA.The next audition belongs to 24-year-old Amaury Telemaco,scheduled to make his Diamondbacks debut as a starter Saturdayagainst St. Louis.
Telemaco was claimed off waivers from theChicago Cubs.The Diamondbacks are now enjoying the fun part that comes from astretch like this.
Their starters are currently engaged in friendlycompetition, each wanting to outdo the other.The wave will crash at some point, especially with a rotation asrelatively young as this one.
As long as the pitchers are ridingthe wave, who cares?
Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail.
Maybe a reserved treatment is surprising from NBC just comingoff the Michael Jordan Experience.
It will have much more of achance to cover him live today with his second-round tee-time of 10a.m.
But if anything, extended coverage by NBC and ESPN Thursdaytended to rein in the hype and make the scores the thing to focuson rather than the potential sideshow.Meaning that even with non-Masters'-like TV time NBC does 16hours over the four days, and ESPN takes the first two rounds tonear completion there won't be anything more on the Martin storyunless something materializes.Martin, who has received nothing but praise by media types forhis accommodating demeanor, writes in the current issue of WE, amagazine for people with disabilities:With the network's NBA coverage complete for the year andprobably no Michael Jordan to baby-sit anymore, Dick Ebersol hasabdicated his title of NBC Sports president to Ken Schanzer.Ebersol, who had the nameplate since 1989, is going to be known asthe chairman of NBC's Olympics division....A seven-year contract extension between KCAL-Channel 9 and theLakers translates into about a $140 million revenue-sharing deal.It also guarantees the station all Lakers playoff games that aren'ttied into the national NBC package....The Kings' new three-year deal KRLA-AM (1110) doesn't meanthey'll be butting heads with the Ducks, whose games were on thestation last season.
The Ducks' contract with KRLA ended, andreportedly they're talking to XTRA-AM (690), which is the stationthat the Kings left because of the signal's lack of penetration inthe San Fernando Valley and because the station presented many moreconflicts with other teams' broadcasts....UCLA's football game at Miami on Sept. 26 will be on CBS'schedule with a 9 a.m. kickoff time locally, and Terry Donahue willbe the analyst.
It looked like it began in more than one place, and it spreadfast and low, as if it had been fueled.Three decades later, Romaneck came forward with a shocking story that her father had killed her mother and buried her body at thefamily home.The father eventually was sent to prison for that crime, andinvestigators took another look at the fatal fire.
They determinedit was not an accident but arson.This month, Romaneck won a $5.5 million judgment against thecity, claiming that police and fire officials were negligent intheir investigation of her sisters' deaths.As a result of that negligence, her father, Eugene Keidel,remained free and, she said, subjected her to years of abuse.So the city agreed to a judgment in Romaneck's favor.
The $5.5million will be paid by the city's insurance carriers.One of Romaneck's attorneys, Frank Verderame, said Thursday thatthe key for Romaneck was having the city acknowledge thenegligence.The disappearance of Dianne Keidel remained a mystery for 27years, until Romaneck broke her silence and came forward withshocking details.In a letter mailed to Phoenix police, she wrote that she hadseen her father beat her mother on Sept. 17, 1966.
Then she hadheard digging outside their west Phoenix house.The year after the letter, in 1994, Eugene Keidel was arrested.A jury found him guilty of first-degree murder, and he wassentenced to life in prison.The fire had occurred Jan. 9, 1967.
Eugene Keidel toldinvestigators that he was not home at the time.
He had gone to aconvenience store, bought a beer and then drank it while dryingclothes at a laundromat, he said.The two surviving children were left in the care of EugeneKeidel.
Romaneck said that led to a childhood filled with terror years and years of physical and sexual abuse.Romaneck said she learned for the first time that police andfire officials suspected foul play in her sister's deaths in 1995,when she was given copies of their death certificates.They had been amended by investigators who re-examined the fireafter Romaneck had come forward about her mother's disappearance.They concluded that the 1967 investigation was flawed, that thefire was caused by arson, and that the girls' deaths werehomicides.
Officials have yet to decide whether to charge Keidelwith them.In a deposition, a retired fire investigator, Bob Biven, saidthat in 1967 he had suspicions about the fire.
He said it appearedto have started in more than one place, but he could not eliminatethe pan on the stove as a possible source.Moore later said in a deposition that he could not rule out thepan on the stove and that he believed the fire was an accident.But the detective also acknowledged that he didn't interview thesurviving children and didn't see the bodies of the dead childrenand their burns, or photos of the dead children.At the time, another Phoenix detective was investigating thedisappearance of Keidel's wife four months before the fire, courtrecords show, and believed that Keidel was a possible suspect.Romaneck said Thursday she still has vivid memories of the dayof the fire.
Her older sister, Karen Sue, tried desperately toprotect her.LOS ANGELES In adopting a plan that would allow massive growthin Los Angeles boosting the population 25 percent by 2010 cityofficials failed to properly tell the public the staggering costsof meeting the needs of 820,000 new residents, a judge has ruled.Two years after the City Council adopted a General PlanFramework to guide overall development, Superior Court Judge DavidYaffe tentatively ruled Thursday that the city must hold additionalhearings and give the public a chance to review and comment on howto meet traffic and transit needs, and whether the city has the upto $25 billion available to meet them.The judge's decision could at least temporarily set aside theGeneral Plan until the additional hearings are held and the plan isreadopted in its current or modified form.The Transportation Improvement and Mitigation Program was notproperly circulated to the public for input before the City Councilvoted 9 to 4 to approve the General Plan and an accompanyingEnvironmental Impact Report in 1996, the judge said.Yaffe said he would not substitute his judgment for that of theCity Council on the merits of the proposal, but said the city waslegally obligated to disclose the transportation plan and itswarnings before adopting the General Plan.Hal Bernson, who chairs the City Council's Planning and Land UseCommittee, harshly criticized the ruling even as he maintained itwould have little immediate impact.Deputy City Attorney Susan Phann said depending on the wordingof the judge's written order to be finalized in two weeks theGeneral Plan might be allowed to remain in effect while thetransportation report is recirculated and hearings are held.But Lawrence Teeter, an attorney for the federation, said hebelieves the judge's action would temporarily set aside the city'sGeneral Plan while the transportation issue is reheard.Teeter said he does not see how the council could keep theGeneral Plan in effect while holding hearings on whether it isadequate.Gordon Murley, president of the Woodland Hills HomeownersOrganization and the federation, said the ruling allows a newchallenge about whether the growth plan adequately deals withtraffic and transit problems it would generate.If the city were allowed to grow at the levels envisioned by theplan, freeway speeds would grind to half what they are nowunlessmass transit was greatly expanded.Growth allowed under the disputed plan would create a huge gulfbetween needs and critical services, leaving the city short 6,100police officers, 77 fire stations and 87 schools.The General Plan is a land-use guide for city planners injudging zoning and building applications, channeling newdevelopment into areas where public agencies would have to investin service and transit upgrades.In a major move rearranging the Web's power structure, The WaltDisney Co. announced Thursday it is buying what will turn into acontrolling interest of one the most popular Internet searchcompanies in a deal valued at nearly $500 million.Disney officials say they will use the Internet might ofInfoseek and Disney's strongest assets which include suchpowerhouse brands as ABC and ESPN, its theme parks and characters to attract the hundreds of millions of people not already online.Analysts said that far more than any other Internet player,Disney can successfully market the idea of easy Web access tonontechies, including the advertising-attractive group of parentswho trust the Disney name but aren't Internet-savvy yet.The deal will put Disney in competition on at least one frontwith Internet companies such as America Online and Yahoo!
that alsoare building content on the World Wide Web, currently used by about50 million people.
But where AOL also serves as an Internet serviceprovider, giving customers a local telephone number through whichthey can access AOL and the Internet, Disney is just offering sites albeit, well-branded sites to visit once someone is online.Then again, with cable and telephone companies workingfeverishly to bring the Internet into every home, Disney doesn'thave to offer connection service.
After all, Disney attractsmillions of moviegoers but doesn't own any theater chains.The deals reinforce the view that traditional media companieswill have to partner with Internet specialists rather than buildWeb portals from scratch if they are to achieve significantrecognition among current and future Internet users.Thursday's deal was just the latest agreement between amainstream media company and an Internet firm.
Disney formed analliance two weeks ago with Excite, providing easy access toDisney's sites, and NBC last week paid $32 million for a minorityinvestment in Internet specialist CNET and its Snap!
directoryservice.Shares of Infoseek had risen nearly 50 percent in the past threeweeks as takeover rumors lifted most Internet stocks.
Infoseekshares gained 62.5 cents to $35.125 after hitting $42 during thesession while Disney lost 2 5/16 to $112.The $496 million deal calls for Disney to obtain a 43 percentstake in Infoseek in exchange for Disney's ownership position inStarwave Corp. which develops Disney's Internet sites plus $70million cash.Analysts believe the entertainment giant is in the right placeat the right time even though profits won't show up on the bottomline immediately.Maybe a reserved treatment is surprising from NBC just comingoff the Michael Jordan Experience.
It will have much more of achance to cover him live today with his second-round tee-time of 10a.m.
But if anything, extended coverage by NBC and ESPN Thursdaytended to rein in the hype and make the scores the thing to focuson rather than the potential sideshow.Meaning that even with non-Masters'-like TV time NBC does 16hours over the four days, and ESPN takes the first two rounds tonear completion there won't be anything more on the Martin storyunless something materializes.Martin, who has received nothing but praise by media types forhis accommodating demeanor, writes in the current issue of WE, amagazine for people with disabilities:With the network's NBA coverage complete for the year andprobably no Michael Jordan to baby-sit anymore, Dick Ebersol hasabdicated his title of NBC Sports president to Ken Schanzer.Ebersol, who had the nameplate since 1989, is going to be known asthe chairman of NBC's Olympics division....A seven-year contract extension between KCAL-Channel 9 and theLakers translates into about a $140 million revenue-sharing deal.It also guarantees the station all Lakers playoff games that aren'ttied into the national NBC package....The Kings' new three-year deal KRLA-AM (1110) doesn't meanthey'll be butting heads with the Ducks, whose games were on thestation last season.
The Ducks' contract with KRLA ended, andreportedly they're talking to XTRA-AM (690), which is the stationthat the Kings left because of the signal's lack of penetration inthe San Fernando Valley and because the station presented many moreconflicts with other teams' broadcasts....UCLA's football game at Miami on Sept. 26 will be on CBS'schedule with a 9 a.m. kickoff time locally, and Terry Donahue willbe the analyst.-- Maybe it's best that USC's new football play-by-play mandoesn't use his real name.
With analyst Paul McDonald next to himand Paul Hackett on the field, it would get pretty confusing.SAN FRANCISCO Somewhere along the Olympic Club's Lake CourseThursday, Steve Pate misplaced his swing.
He stopped by the lostand found after his first round at the U.S. Open and nobody hadturned it in.So all the Agoura Hills resident could do was storm off to thedriving range, where he was a study in displaced anger, beatingrange balls when everyone knew darn well that what he really wantedto do was take a bulldozer to the 16th, 17th and 18th holes.Those 1,424 yards were Pate's undoing, turning a resplendentround inside out.
He arrived at the 16th tee tied for the earlylead at 2-under par and feeling pretty good about himself.
He leftthe scorer's tent less than an hour later seething after signingoff on a 2-over-par 72.The four-shot swing came courtesy of bogeys at 16 and 17 and adouble bogey at the par-4, 347-yard 18th.
His finish told the storyof many players' first rounds on a day when a marine layer parkeditself over the course like an irksome spectator and madeeverything in its midst players, putters, coffee cold.Mark Carnevale, who posted a 3-under-par 67, one stroke behindleader Payne Stewart, was the only player in the 156-man field tosuccessfully elude the bogey man.
Pate was one of the few not tofeel like the Ice Man had cometh.Pate, a member of the first group that teed off, was at thedriving range for 3{ hours.
That was nearly as long as he andplaying partners Olin Browne and Grant Waite were on the course.
Asthe afternoon wore on, the temperature dropped appreciably and awicked wind kicked up chillbumps.All around Pate, people were reaching for sweatshirts andwindbreakers or apparently their wallets, because inside the USGAmerchandise tent warm items were moving faster than some of theputts on the Lake Course's sloping greens.Indeed, it's a small wonder the stares he trained on the heavensafter some of his shots down the stretch didn't burn away the fog.On the 18th hole, he looked insulted when his second shot from theshaggy green stuff to the left of the fairway landed in the bunkerin front of the green, indignant when his third shot failed toclear the bunker, incisive when his fourth shot stopped 6 feet fromthe pin, incensed when he missed the bogey putt.Neither is entirely true.
He had a couple of magical moments,chipping in for a birdie on No.
4 and draining a 60-foot birdieputt on No.
9.
And he hit a couple hundred really nice shots on therange.On this day, plus-two hardly seemed worth five bags of rangeballs, much less 10.
Seventy-seven players in the field would havegiven their spare sweater for that score, among them Hale Irwin(80), Sam Randolph (80), Ben Crenshaw (82) and poor Richard Ames(86).Pate's range rage was rivaled only by Jim Furyk, who spent!ital!four!off!
hours teeing up practice balls after shooting a 74that included a double bogey on each nine.It's a good thing for Pate and Furyk that USGA officials didn'tpost signs like the ones you find at the gym, usually in thevicinity of the stairmasters and treadmills, that ask you to abideby a 30-minute time limit when people are waiting.We'll find out today whether or not it's a good thing they'regetting another shot at the Lake Course.
Pate's strategy is goingto be pretty simple.Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in animpish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating thebirdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-roundlead at the U.S. Open.By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished witha 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale ona day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick roughtinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditionsdifficult for the 156 starters.
Stewart was among nine players whofinished yesterday with under-par scores.Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway, Joe Durant and Jose MariaOlazabal, all at 68.
John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert, aHouston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.Several notables struggled, however.
Past major-championshipwinners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all findthemselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collectedfive birdies and one bogey.
He also drained two par putts frombeyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open.
In1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.Stewart's biggest break came at No.
17, where he hit a driverinto the first cut on the right-hand side.
Figuring he could notreach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tallgrass and caught it flush.
The ball rolled.
And rolled.
And rolled.All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewartdrained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funkychicken dance in celebration.He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected2-iron into the right rough.
From there, Stewart dug out an 8-ironthat skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high andturning toward the hole.
It eventually stopped 12 feet above thehole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie ofthe day.Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman whohas bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18holes without a bogey in the opening round.Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greensin regulation.
He one-putted nine greens, including three forbirdies.WASHINGTON The federal grand jury investigating therelationship between President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky onThursday heard from the lawyer who had helped prepare her statementin the Paula Jones lawsuit.The testimony by the lawyer, Francis Carter, has been soughtfrom the outset of the inquiry by the independent counsel, KennethStarr.
Carter helped prepare an affidavit on Ms. Lewinsky's behalfin the lawsuit by Mrs. Jones, in which Ms. Lewinsky denied underoath that she had had a sexual relationship with Clinton.Ms.
Lewinsky was referred to Carter by Vernon Jordan, a closefriend of the president.
Jordan has said that he took Ms. Lewinskyto see Carter at about the time he was helping to arrange a job forher.
At the time, she faced a subpoena in the sexual harassmentlawsuit brought by Mrs. Jones against Clinton.But later on Thursday, in an interview with The Washington Post,Carter depicted himself as a lawyer who had been kept in the darkby his client, Ms. Lewinsky, about several important details.
Ms.Lewinsky did not tell him that she had received gifts from Clinton,or that Jordan was even then trying to help her find a job, ThePost quoted Carter as saying.Jordan has said he tried to assist Ms. Lewinsky at the requestof Clinton's personal secretary, Betty Currie.
Starr is known to beinvestigating whether the job aid from Jordan was part of anillegal scheme to keep Ms. Lewinsky quiet about a possible affairwith Clinton while the Jones lawsuit was still pending.Although Ms. Lewinsky had denied a sexual relationship with thepresident in the Jones affidavit, Ms. Lewinsky's second set oflawyers had proposed as part of secret immunity talks withprosecutors that she would be willing to testify that she did havesex with Clinton, lawyers involved in those talks said.But no evidence has surfaced to indicate that Carter didanything improper in helping Ms. Lewinsky prepare her originalaffidavit.Carter's appeared before the grand jury on Thursday after losinga court fight over whether his conversations with Ms. Lewinsky wereprotected by the lawyer-client privilege.Also on Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said she had notdecided whether to open an inquiry about accusations in a newmagazine, Brill's Content, that Starr made improper disclosures toreporters.
Starr has denied those accusations.
Ms. Reno said shehad referred the matter to the Office of ProfessionalResponsibility at the Justice Department to decide whether topursue an inquiry.Yet there was Payne Stewart, basket full and face awash in animpish grin, trying to calculate the odds against repeating thebirdie-birdie-birdie finish that propelled him into the first-roundlead at the U.S. Open.By closing with three consecutive birdies, Stewart finished witha 4-under-par 66 and took a one-stroke lead over Mark Carnevale ona day with the par-70 layout played to an average score of 75.Well-tucked pins, firm fairways, tiny greens and thick roughtinged with a heavy morning dew helped make scoring conditionsdifficult for the 156 starters.
Stewart was among nine players whofinished yesterday with under-par scores.Others included Tom Lehman, Bob Tway, Joe Durant and Jose MariaOlazabal, all at 68.
John Daly, Jesper Parnevik and Jeff Maggert, aHouston resident and Texas AM graduate, are at 69.Several notables struggled, however.
Past major-championshipwinners Ben Crenshaw (82), Hale Irwin (80), Davis Love III (78),Nick Faldo (77), Curtis Strange (77) and Corey Pavin (76) all findthemselves at least 10 strokes in back of Stewart.But the well-hidden pins could not stop Stewart, who collectedfive birdies and one bogey.
He also drained two par putts frombeyond 12 feet in matching his best career start at the Open.
In1991, when Stewart won the title, he opened with a 67.Stewart's biggest break came at No.
17, where he hit a driverinto the first cut on the right-hand side.
Figuring he could notreach the green, Stewart opted to play a 2-iron out of the tallgrass and caught it flush.
The ball rolled.
And rolled.
And rolled.All the way to the front edge of the green, where Stewartdrained the 45-footer for birdie and began an impromptu funkychicken dance in celebration.He followed with his worst swing of the day, a misdirected2-iron into the right rough.
From there, Stewart dug out an 8-ironthat skirted the edge of the green before reaching pin-high andturning toward the hole.
It eventually stopped 12 feet above thehole, and Stewart canned the ticklish putt for his final birdie ofthe day.Stewart's closest pursuer is Carnevale, a career journeyman whohas bounced between the PGA Tour and Nike Tour in recent seasons.But the 38-year-old emerged as the only front-runner to finish 18holes without a bogey in the opening round.Carnevale, 38, hit 10 of 14 fairways and found 12 of 18 greensin regulation.
He one-putted nine greens, including three forbirdies.SAN FRANCISCO As they watch him limp, the bitterness wanes.
Asthey meet the person, the principles soften.
And as they witness adisabled man validating his journey, an amazing thing is happening:A big divot of compassion is emerging from the pampered fairways oftheir soul.Not now.
Not when the man with a dying leg beats the system,shrugs off the animosity, keeps his head down and completes thefirst round of his first major .
. . eight strokes off the lead.The stodgy suits will never admit it, but golf scored big onThursday.
Four months after winning in court, Martin is poised togo from role model to folk hero.After all, this wasn't a freak show or a rebel without a cause.This is a golfer proving why he deserves to ride.
And if you have apulse, you are cheering for Martin now.Why must the lords of golf fight this sentiment?
Why can't theydrop the appeal, one that is costing Martin over six figures inlegal fees?
How can they cite the sanctity of tradition when theysell out to club manufacturers?It's easy to fawn over talent, but what about courage?
Isn'tthat worth more than anything, a lesson everyone can learn from?You would think they'd recognize what a boon Martin can be fortheir sport.It was almost cruel what Martin experienced after arriving inSan Francisco.
A flat tire on the way to his practice round.
A cartthat broke down after one hole, and another single-seat model thatalmost tipped over navigating the hills.Through it all, Martin graciously accepted whatever he wasgiven, and then his luck began to change.In an impromptu skins game, Martin fleeced Woods out of $30.
OnThursday, despite a late tee time that had him shivering in thedark, he played with incredible poise.
Despite bogeying the lasttwo holes, he is in good position to make the cut.On the subject of playing in the dark, there is still a factionopposed to Martin.
By deposition, Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmertestified against him.
And Tom Watson had a chilling response whenasked how he'd feel if his son was in the same position.Whatever, Tom.
But for all the talk of golf being a physicalactivity, know Martin had to walk from approach shot to green, thenon to the next tee.
That's about 60 yards per hole, and givenMartin's disease, I'd call that a wash.Yet once the sun had disappeared, there were no tire tracks, nodilemmas, no controversy surrounding his cart.
Just a man who nevergave up showing us the reason why.
Dan Bickley can be reached at dan.bickley(at)pni.com.State tribal negotiators reached a truce Thursday in the statepoker wars, just 18 hours before Casino Arizona was set to open onthe Salt River Pima-Maricopa Community, east of Scottsdale.After months of declaring that the state has no authority overIndian-run poker, Ivan Makil, tribal president, agreed to hire thestate Gaming Department to oversee and monitor its 42-table pokerroom at McKellips Road just east of the Pima Freeway.In exchange, Gov.
Jane Hull will not take the tribe the court toresolve the poker issue, which erupted in August after stateAttorney General Grant Woods said that Indian-run card games areillegal in Arizona.Details of the pact have not been worked out, but it means thatCasino Arizona, which opens Friday, will continue to run its pokerhall while negotiations continue between Hull and tribal officials.Without the agreement, the casino's continued operation may havebeen in jeopardy.Gary Husk, head of the Arizona Gaming Department, said hisconcerns over hiring practices at the casino prove the state shouldregulate poker just as it does slot machines and other games inIndian country.He said he is worried about the integrity of poker at CasinoArizona because the tribe has hired a felon and another man whosegaming license was revoked by the state.Officials at Casino Arizona said that the men pose no risk toplayers, and have been approved by the National Indian GamingAssociation in Washington, D.C., and cleared several otherbackground checks.The casino's decision to hire Frank Vawter, convicted in 1978 ofembezzlement, and Michael Byrne, whose state gaming license wasrevoked in 1996, is under fire.Salt River gaming officials, who were scrambling Thursday to getthe 20,000-square-foot hall ready for Friday's poker players,defended the hiring of Vawter and Byrne.All poker-hall workers are subjected to checks by federal gamingofficials, as well as the Arizona Indian Regulatory Association,Jenkins said.
In addition, he said, Salt River officials verifyreferences and call other sources.Amalia Valencia, Salt River's licensing official, acknowledgedthat the casino has hired other felons, but she said they are notviolent and are trustworthy.Vawter was working at Fort McDowell's casino in 1995 when thestate learned that he had been convicted in California ofembezzling $10,000 from a business partner.
He was sentenced to 30days in jail.Although records show that Vawter's conviction was later setaside, an Arizona hearing officer refused to issue him a gaminglicense needed for a supervisory job.Byrne, who also worked at Fort McDowell, lost his gaming licenseafter state regulators ruled that he had worked temporarily in anunlicensed casino in California.
But Byrne said he was givenpermission by his boss at Fort McDowell to work at the Californiafacility.Although he lost his Arizona license, he said he has beenlicensed in California and has been a guest speaker on gambling atScottsdale Community College.It looks simple.
The local thug is causing trouble again, thistime beating up his own people, not the neighbors.
Last time, hebecame cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showedit meant business by carrying out air strikes.It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, SlobodanMilosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who isprobably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.Thousands of lives would have been saved.In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsinthat it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talkto the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo.
Yet no oneshould assume that this better behavior will last long.Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat atthe hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years ofMuslim subjugation.But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of theYugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy wasended, repression has intensified.The Kosovars want to secede.
Some would prefer to negotiatetheir independence; others, growing in number by the day, are readyto fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the borderin Albania.Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in thekilling is likely to be just that, a lull.
The question of whetherto intervene will then recur.The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government thatcould claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold theprinciple of territorial integrity.Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for?
And who gaveNATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'internal affairs?On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution inthe U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes.
Andwithout the Security Council's approval, it is far from certainthat even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now adefense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whosefellow-Slavs are the Serbs).
Action, if it is taken, could end upas an American-British affair.Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, isby no means exceptionally terrible.
Some 200-300 people have beenkilled and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 ofthem fleeing abroad.The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervenein Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) orRwanda (800,000).Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in militaryactions).
The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to thedangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less.
And theKosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on theiroppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: howwould NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes againstan Indian government that was fighting to prevent itsmajority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?All this should make outsiders think hard before letting sliptheir airborne dogs of war.
Yet one consideration strengthens thecase, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is notcontained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its owndiscontented ethnic-Albanian minority.
The ensuing civil war wouldprobably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eagerto break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greecewould be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil warthis decade).
Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would bebombs well dropped.Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombswould be enough.
Armed intervention, if it were to work, would alsorequire specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end torepression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holyplaces.At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilizeMacedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnicAlbanians).
But even this would probably be too little if theinterveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as wellas in the air, to keep the peace.That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to upholdSerbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would beseen as yet another empty western gesture.
(To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
It looks simple.
The local thug is causing trouble again, thistime beating up his own people, not the neighbors.
Last time, hebecame cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showedit meant business by carrying out air strikes.It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, SlobodanMilosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who isprobably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.Thousands of lives would have been saved.In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsinthat it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talkto the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo.
Yet no oneshould assume that this better behavior will last long.Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat atthe hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years ofMuslim subjugation.But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of theYugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy wasended, repression has intensified.The Kosovars want to secede.
Some would prefer to negotiatetheir independence; others, growing in number by the day, are readyto fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the borderin Albania.Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in thekilling is likely to be just that, a lull.
The question of whetherto intervene will then recur.The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government thatcould claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold theprinciple of territorial integrity.Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for?
And who gaveNATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'internal affairs?On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution inthe U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes.
Andwithout the Security Council's approval, it is far from certainthat even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now adefense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whosefellow-Slavs are the Serbs).
Action, if it is taken, could end upas an American-British affair.Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, isby no means exceptionally terrible.
Some 200-300 people have beenkilled and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 ofthem fleeing abroad.The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervenein Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) orRwanda (800,000).Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in militaryactions).
The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to thedangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less.
And theKosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on theiroppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: howwould NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes againstan Indian government that was fighting to prevent itsmajority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?All this should make outsiders think hard before letting sliptheir airborne dogs of war.
Yet one consideration strengthens thecase, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is notcontained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its owndiscontented ethnic-Albanian minority.
The ensuing civil war wouldprobably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eagerto break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greecewould be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil warthis decade).
Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would bebombs well dropped.Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombswould be enough.
Armed intervention, if it were to work, would alsorequire specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end torepression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holyplaces.At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilizeMacedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnicAlbanians).
But even this would probably be too little if theinterveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as wellas in the air, to keep the peace.That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to upholdSerbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would beseen as yet another empty western gesture.
(To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
It looks simple.
The local thug is causing trouble again, thistime beating up his own people, not the neighbors.
Last time, hebecame cooperative only when the West, in the shape of NATO, showedit meant business by carrying out air strikes.It is now clear that if NATO had acted a lot earlier, SlobodanMilosevic for the thug in question is the Serb nationalist who isprobably more to blame for the Balkans' wars than anyone else would have brought his Bosnian cousins to heel much sooner.Thousands of lives would have been saved.In Moscow this week, Milosevic was persuaded by Boris Yeltsinthat it would be prudent to listen to his critics and at least talkto the people in Serbia's southern province of Kosovo.
Yet no oneshould assume that this better behavior will last long.Serb nationalists have a special reverence for parts of Kosovo,notably the Field of Blackbirds, where their forebears' defeat atthe hands of the Ottomans in 1389 cast the Serbs into 500 years ofMuslim subjugation.But this reverence for Kosovo does not extend to its people, 90percent of whom are ethnically Albanian and mostly Muslim.In communist times, Kosovo was an autonomous province of theYugoslav republic of Serbia, but since 1989, when its autonomy wasended, repression has intensified.The Kosovars want to secede.
Some would prefer to negotiatetheir independence; others, growing in number by the day, are readyto fight for it with arms supplied by brethren across the borderin Albania.Without an agreement on the status of Kosovo, any lull in thekilling is likely to be just that, a lull.
The question of whetherto intervene will then recur.The arguments against armed intervention are far from trivial.It would, if it happened, be an attack on a lawful government thatcould claim to be doing no more than fighting to uphold theprinciple of territorial integrity.Wasn't that what Abraham Lincoln was fighting for?
And who gaveNATO the right to go around interfering in other countries'internal affairs?On current form, Russia and China would veto any resolution inthe U.N. Security Council to authorize NATO air strikes.
Andwithout the Security Council's approval, it is far from certainthat even a majority of NATO's members would give theirs.NATO, after all, has been assuring everyone that it is now adefense-cum-peacekeeping outfit that threatens absolutely nobody,least of all its old adversaries the Russians (among whosefellow-Slavs are the Serbs).
Action, if it is taken, could end upas an American-British affair.Moreover, the Serbs' repression in Kosovo, though terrible, isby no means exceptionally terrible.
Some 200-300 people have beenkilled and perhaps 65,000 have abandoned their homes, 10,000 ofthem fleeing abroad.The world, it may be remembered, never felt obliged to intervenein Chechnya (50,000-100,000 dead), East Timor (100,000-200,000) orRwanda (800,000).Innocents might get killed (always a possibility in militaryactions).
The Serbs might refuse to back down, leading to thedangers of more intervention or the embarrassment of less.
And theKosovars, emboldened by western help, might turn on theiroppressors, ethnically cleansing maybe cutting the throats of the 10 percent Serb minority.Then, one day, it could be cited as an awful precedent: howwould NATO react were China, say, to carry out air strikes againstan Indian government that was fighting to prevent itsmajority-Muslim province of Jammu Kashmir from seceding?All this should make outsiders think hard before letting sliptheir airborne dogs of war.
Yet one consideration strengthens thecase, perhaps decisively, for intervention of the right kind.It is the likelihood that, if the turmoil in Kosovo is notcontained, it will spread to Macedonia, which has its owndiscontented ethnic-Albanian minority.
The ensuing civil war wouldprobably lead other Macedonians to take up arms, some of them eagerto break up their country and create a Greater Bulgaria.Were that to stretch to the Aegean, as some would like, Greecewould be drawn in, and surely also the Kosovars' friend, Turkey(never mind Albania proper, which has already had one civil warthis decade).
Cyprus too would almost certainly go up in smoke.If all this could be stopped by a few bombs now, they would bebombs well dropped.Unfortunately, it is unlikely that a few, or even many, bombswould be enough.
Armed intervention, if it were to work, would alsorequire specifying exactly what is wanted of the Serbs: an end torepression in Kosovo and the restoration of its autonomy,preferably with the handing over to Serbia of the Serbs' holyplaces.At the same time the West should do what it could to stabilizeMacedonia (offer aid in return for decent treatment of the ethnicAlbanians).
But even this would probably be too little if theinterveners were not ready to get involved on the ground, as wellas in the air, to keep the peace.That prospect is the nastiest of all for NATO, but, without it,attacks on Kosovars would probably continue, the pledge to upholdSerbia's integrity would be disbelieved and the bombing would beseen as yet another empty western gesture.
(To publish this excellent 1,000-word article, it must be purchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finallytumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so itseconomy is no longer merely drifting but is officially inrecession.The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, asthe yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to beseen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic andpolitical turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump tofollow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show ofacting together to fend off the danger.
They announced no newpolicies, but did back their soothing words with determinedintervention in the foreign-exchange markets.The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.The respite is likely to prove short-lived.
Asia's nightmare, andthe West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,are far from over.A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should havebeen done to stop it happening, and what should be done now torestore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the timebeing, damage control and crisis management remain the orders ofthe day.Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn andacted upon.
Japan must and can act decisively to revive itseconomy.It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fateof the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix.
GDP fell by anannualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia andIndonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecastssuggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, pleadand affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most partthis is a sideshow.
If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,Japanese leadership, now is the time.Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills.
But it affectsAsia in two ways.
Lack of demand in its economy much the region'sbiggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way torecovery.Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia'sGDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea andTaiwan.
In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantagethat the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'currencies.On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan anda stronger yen.
But arranging both is tricky, even supposing thatJapan can summon the will to do so.This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair andyet it can be resolved.
In itself, the harm that a weak yen does toAsia is not great.
The yen has fallen over the past couple ofmonths, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asiancurrencies than a year ago.Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,export quite different goods: their competitiveness in thirdmarkets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to payfor a speedier recovery in Japan.To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheapyen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banksmakes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal ormonetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, notmerely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing.
And so thelitany of despair goes on.Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective.
Theproblems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can bedealt with.Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demandwith monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess andvigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that beenough to make the world economy a safe place?No.
Risk can be reduced but not eliminated.
A devaluation ofChina's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to theregion's other economies.
The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probablygive way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluationsacross the region.With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recentfall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, notan overvalued currency.
But China may devalue anyway, and thatwould be scary.Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,especially Wall Street.
If more bad news from Asia causes equityprices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would beset for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia.
This remains thelikeliest channel of contagion.America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of itsGDP.
All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relativelymodest 2.4 percent of GDP.
Even if its sales to the region fell by25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect inthe United States.
Also, the faster-than-expected recovery incontinental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in worlddemand.Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almostcertainly have raised America's interest rates by now.
Indeed,there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheatingdespite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumerspending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing morecapital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter.
Movesin either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, buton balance one that is worth taking.Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand inJapan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better servedby economic stability in the United States than by a concern tokeep American interest rates low.If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have toraise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now.
That woulddeal Asia a worse blow.A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States tokeep its interest rates down.
America was worried about thetumbling dollar and slow growth.
Japan obliged, despite signs thatits economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake.
It is alesson worth pondering.
(To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finallytumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so itseconomy is no longer merely drifting but is officially inrecession.The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, asthe yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to beseen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic andpolitical turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump tofollow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show ofacting together to fend off the danger.
They announced no newpolicies, but did back their soothing words with determinedintervention in the foreign-exchange markets.The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.The respite is likely to prove short-lived.
Asia's nightmare, andthe West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,are far from over.A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should havebeen done to stop it happening, and what should be done now torestore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the timebeing, damage control and crisis management remain the orders ofthe day.Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn andacted upon.
Japan must and can act decisively to revive itseconomy.It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fateof the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix.
GDP fell by anannualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia andIndonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecastssuggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, pleadand affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most partthis is a sideshow.
If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,Japanese leadership, now is the time.Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills.
But it affectsAsia in two ways.
Lack of demand in its economy much the region'sbiggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way torecovery.Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia'sGDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea andTaiwan.
In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantagethat the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'currencies.On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan anda stronger yen.
But arranging both is tricky, even supposing thatJapan can summon the will to do so.This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair andyet it can be resolved.
In itself, the harm that a weak yen does toAsia is not great.
The yen has fallen over the past couple ofmonths, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asiancurrencies than a year ago.Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,export quite different goods: their competitiveness in thirdmarkets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to payfor a speedier recovery in Japan.To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheapyen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banksmakes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal ormonetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, notmerely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing.
And so thelitany of despair goes on.Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective.
Theproblems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can bedealt with.Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demandwith monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess andvigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that beenough to make the world economy a safe place?No.
Risk can be reduced but not eliminated.
A devaluation ofChina's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to theregion's other economies.
The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probablygive way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluationsacross the region.With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recentfall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, notan overvalued currency.
But China may devalue anyway, and thatwould be scary.Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,especially Wall Street.
If more bad news from Asia causes equityprices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would beset for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia.
This remains thelikeliest channel of contagion.America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of itsGDP.
All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relativelymodest 2.4 percent of GDP.
Even if its sales to the region fell by25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect inthe United States.
Also, the faster-than-expected recovery incontinental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in worlddemand.Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almostcertainly have raised America's interest rates by now.
Indeed,there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheatingdespite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumerspending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing morecapital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter.
Movesin either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, buton balance one that is worth taking.Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand inJapan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better servedby economic stability in the United States than by a concern tokeep American interest rates low.If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have toraise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now.
That woulddeal Asia a worse blow.A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States tokeep its interest rates down.
America was worried about thetumbling dollar and slow growth.
Japan obliged, despite signs thatits economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake.
It is alesson worth pondering.
(To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
After clinging on desperately for years, Japan has finallytumbled: output has fallen for two quarters in succession, so itseconomy is no longer merely drifting but is officially inrecession.The news provoked another wave of worldwide economic alarm, asthe yen sank at the beginning of the week to an eight-year low.Once the global exemplar, Japan's failing economy has come to beseen as a potent risk to its neighbors and the rest of the world.Outright depression in Japan, further rounds of economic andpolitical turmoil in the rest of Asia, and a global slump tofollow: might this dismal scenario unfold after all?On June 17 the governments of Japan and America made a show ofacting together to fend off the danger.
They announced no newpolicies, but did back their soothing words with determinedintervention in the foreign-exchange markets.The yen rallied impressively and global stock markets bounced.The respite is likely to prove short-lived.
Asia's nightmare, andthe West's anxieties about what it means for Europe and America,are far from over.A coherent account of what went wrong in Asia, what should havebeen done to stop it happening, and what should be done now torestore stability in the region, is still lacking; for the timebeing, damage control and crisis management remain the orders ofthe day.Yet the latest events do allow one conclusion to be drawn andacted upon.
Japan must and can act decisively to revive itseconomy.It has every reason in its own interests to do so, but the fateof the region also hinges on whether it meets the challenge.The rest of East Asia is in a terrible fix.
GDP fell by anannualized 20 percent or more in South Korea, Malaysia andIndonesia in the first quarter of this year, and new forecastssuggest these economies will at best see no growth next year.As the mayhem continues, Europe and America can exhort, pleadand affect to intervene (in both senses), but for the most partthis is a sideshow.
If Asia ever needed, or was entitled to expect,Japanese leadership, now is the time.Japan's plight has not caused the region's ills.
But it affectsAsia in two ways.
Lack of demand in its economy much the region'sbiggest means that the crippled tigers cannot export their way torecovery.Sales to Japan account for as much as 12 percent of Malaysia'sGDP, and 5-7 percent of GDP in Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea andTaiwan.
In addition, the weak yen reduces the competitive advantagethat the Asian devaluations would otherwise have given the tigers'currencies.On the face of it, Asia needs both stronger demand in Japan anda stronger yen.
But arranging both is tricky, even supposing thatJapan can summon the will to do so.This dilemma has helped to fuel the recent mood of despair andyet it can be resolved.
In itself, the harm that a weak yen does toAsia is not great.
The yen has fallen over the past couple ofmonths, but it remains much stronger against the other East Asiancurrencies than a year ago.Also, though South Korea and Taiwan compete head-on with Japan,other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia,export quite different goods: their competitiveness in thirdmarkets is not directly affected by the fall in the yen.All in all, a cheap yen would be a small price for Asia to payfor a speedier recovery in Japan.To this, the most resolute pessimists reply that neither a cheapyen nor anything else will spur the Japanese economy.Fiscal policy has stopped working; the sickness of Japan's banksmakes any macroeconomic approach to the problem, fiscal ormonetary, irrelevant; the country's productive potential, notmerely its ability to mobilize demand, is collapsing.
And so thelitany of despair goes on.Things are bad, all right, but nowhere near as bad as this.Fiscal policy remains both usable and, if used, effective.
Theproblems in the banking system, once properly acknowledged, can bedealt with.Suppose then that Japan does what it should spurring demandwith monetary and fiscal policy, cleaning up the banking mess andvigorously pursuing reform elsewhere in the economy will that beenough to make the world economy a safe place?No.
Risk can be reduced but not eliminated.
A devaluation ofChina's yuan, for instance, would cause further real harm to theregion's other economies.
The Hong Kong dollar's peg would probablygive way, too, leading to another round of competitive devaluationsacross the region.With luck, China will continue to resist devaluation: the recentfall in China's exports is mainly due to weak regional demand, notan overvalued currency.
But China may devalue anyway, and thatwould be scary.Another risk is the delicate state of western stock markets,especially Wall Street.
If more bad news from Asia causes equityprices in the United States and Europe to slide, the scene would beset for a slowdown spreading far beyond Asia.
This remains thelikeliest channel of contagion.America's exports to Japan account for a tiny 1 percent of itsGDP.
All its exports to the whole of Asia amount to a relativelymodest 2.4 percent of GDP.
Even if its sales to the region fell by25 percent, this would reduce growth only by half a point.This is why the slump in Asia has so far had little effect inthe United States.
Also, the faster-than-expected recovery incontinental Europe this year is helping to fill the hole in worlddemand.Were it not for the problems in Asia, the Fed would almostcertainly have raised America's interest rates by now.
Indeed,there is growing evidence that the American economy is overheatingdespite the chilly breeze from across the Pacific: consumerspending continues to boom, unemployment is at a 30-year low of 4.3percent, and inflation is starting to creep up.Asia notwithstanding, America needs to raise its interest rates but to do so would hurt Asian debtors and, by drawing morecapital out of Asian markets, worsen the region's difficulties.Japan needs looser monetary policy, America needs tighter.
Movesin either case would act to weaken the yen which is a risk, buton balance one that is worth taking.Just as Asia's interests are better served by stronger demand inJapan than by a policy to defend the yen, so they are better servedby economic stability in the United States than by a concern tokeep American interest rates low.If inflation in America continues to rise, the Fed will have toraise rates abruptly, and by more than if it acts now.
That woulddeal Asia a worse blow.A decade ago, Japan faced pressure from the United States tokeep its interest rates down.
America was worried about thetumbling dollar and slow growth.
Japan obliged, despite signs thatits economy was overheating and a financial bubble was developing.Japan's current mess has much to do with that mistake.
It is alesson worth pondering.
(To publish this excellent article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
SEATTLE Bad as it might get for Paul Westphal next season combine the NBA labor dispute with a significant team rebuild, aswell as Gary Payton's mercurial temperament, and prospects are notpretty it won't compare to the tub o' goo he found the first timehe replaced a local Sonic hero.Westphal retains a souvenir from his unlamented Seattle seasonof 1980-81, when he was traded from Phoenix for fellow All-Starguard Dennis Johnson.Two years after they won the NBA title, the Sonics fell to 34-48and last in the Pacific Division the fastest, steepest fall for achampion in NBA history.
Along with leading scorer Gus Williams'season-long contract holdout and forward Lonnie Shelton's brokenwrist after 14 games, Westphal's Sonic career lasted just 36 gamesbecause of a foot injury.Since he was a free agent after the season and left Seattle forthe New York Knicks, and since Johnson went on to stardom with theSuns and Boston Celtics, including two championships, it can beargued that Westphal was part of the worst trade in Seattle prosports history (remember, Brian Bosworth was a draft choice).The Johnson trade ushered in a decade of mediocrity that didn'tend until Karl arrived in 1992.
Now, after six years averagingnearly 60 regular-season wins, the Sonics are at a crossroadssimilar to the one two decades earlier on the backside ofsuccess, striving to stay elite.But the travail of his first Sonic go-round provides a couple oflessons useful this time: Things can slip away quickly, and onecan't assume that today's pain will be tomorrow's pain.Based on the disparity between the Sonics and Lakers in theplayoffs, and the disparities between L.A. and Utah, and Utah andChicago, it's clear that the 60-win benchmark in theexpansion-bloated NBA has been cheapened dramatically.By April, the aging Sonics had slid considerably.
At least fourplayers in the rotation Jim McIlvaine, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkinsand Dale Ellis could no longer play the Sonic-style defense,because of injury, age or inability.
Should there have been aninjury to any one of the remaining regulars, the Sonics were doomedto another first-round disaster.While the return of Gary Payton, Vin Baker, Detlef Schrempf andHersey Hawkins would seem to bode well, they each did enough thingspoorly in the playoffs to suggest that the team Westphal inheritsis more vulnerable than it appears on paper.Sonic president Wally Walker will need to do more than simplysign up free agents to fill vacancies.
Years of failure to developyoung talent under Karl means Walker has to be extremely aggressiveand/or lucky to avoid a 10- to 12-game dropoff.Think Karl would have said that?
When Walker talks of Karl'sinability to be on the same page with the organization, it has todo more with unshared goals such as developing young players thanit does with leaks to the press.A growing assumption is that Payton will be the same headache tomanage for Westphal that he was to Karl.
While Payton, 30 by nextseason, isn't likely to transform as Johnson did, his dealings withWestphal might prove more positive.Westphal is a cooler, less emotional commander than Karl, whosetemper made for regular flashpoints with the equally dyspepticPayton.
The relationship between Payton and Karl was frayed enoughto have become counterproductive.Westphal made clear he will indulge a double standard withPayton, as he did with Charles Barkley in Phoenix.
If thatarrangement is understood and accepted by the team from the start,rather than develop awkwardly over time, the tension dropssubstantially.The x-factor in the Sonic future is the bitterness that will begenerated from the impending lockout of NBA players forecast forJuly 1.The conflict has already prompted a withdrawal of NBA stars,including Payton and Baker, from the team that will represent theU.S.
at the World Championships in Athens in August.If they don't return, among the options USA Basketball isconsidering is suing the individual players for breach of contract.If that won't get Payton double ornery, nothing will.Hard to know where the lockout, as well as the other variables,will leave the Sonics by November.
But if it gets really bad,Westphal still has his bedpan.The guy in the funny clothes Thursday mocked the torture chamberknown as the 98th U.S. Open, sidestepping the unforgiving rough andstriding jauntily through the eucalyptus and cyprus trees.
Hedidn't stop until climbing atop the first-round leaderboard with afour-under-par 66.That was good for a one-shot edge over Mark Carnevale.
That wasreason enough for the USGA to consider testing only his equipment.Stewart, 41 and in decline since winning a pair of majors, madeit look easy when things were meant to be flat-out miserable.Player after player had declared Olympic's four-foot rough asunfair as any ever encountered on the tour.
Par golf was predicted.With a shrug and a 2-iron, the carefree Stewart barely flinchedon a cool, overcast day in the Bay Area.Stewart also was uncommonly good as he finished.
He birdied thelast three holes on the course, something done only once before by Denis Watson at Olympic's 1987 U.S. Open.
He birdied the par-4,468-yard 17th a feat matched by only three others, Carnevale,Jason Allen and Chris Tidland.
He was one of nine players among the156 to break par, and his 66 was the lowest first-round score infour Olympic Opens.And he seemed to greatly enjoy himself and his new-foundsuccess.
Meeting with reporters, Stewart feigned mock horror whenUSGA official Les Unger pointed out that it had been a couple yearssince he had been in the U.S. Open press tent.Rightly so.
He had finished well out of the running in theprevious four U.S.
Opens, with 21st his best effort.
He had wononly once on the tour over the past seven years, since claiming the1991 U.S. Open in a playoff with Scott Simpson (his other majorvictory was the 1989 PGA Championship).
In his most recent outing,The Memorial, he had shot an 83, taking a 10 on one hole.Thursday, Stewart was a new man.
He was dressed the same asusual, wearing one of his trademark ensembles, a blue and plaidlook, complete with cap and knickers.
But his game was sharper,mixing pinpoint accuracy, great resilience and, admittedly, dumbluck in piecing together a five-birdie, one-bogey effort.On the short but tricky 288-yard seventh, he nearly holed out,leaving a wedge shot three inches from the cup.
Tap-in birdie.
Onthe 609-yard 16th, he left an iron shot eight inches from the hole.Another tap-in birdie.On the 17th, a converted par-5 and Olympic's toughest hole,Stewart launched a 2-iron out of the rough and onto the green.
Herammed in a 45-foot putt for birdie and wiggled his body incelebration.
On the 347-yard 18th, he curled in a 12-footer forbirdie, again escaping the rough off the tee.
Playingconservatively, he used his driver just three times.His closest pursuer was another unlikely Open contender,Carnevale, who shot a bogey-free 67.
The stocky 38-year-old golferhad struggled mightily this season, missing the cut in 10 of 15events and finishing no higher than 41st at the Phoenix Open.But he hung with Stewart.
Even when the inevitable happened when he realized how much uncharted territory he had covered.
Hehas one tour victory to his name, the 1992 Chattanooga Classic.
Notexactly a major.Daly, winner of the 1991 PGA Championship and 1995 British Open,has forsaken his driver this week, a courageous move for a manlonger off the tee than anyone.
He has turned to his 3-wood,leaving him some 35 to 40 yards shorter than the norm and concedinglong drive stats and bonus money.
He's not happy, but he's incontention.HONOLULU As America basks in what may soon become the longesteconomic expansion in its history, one state continues to strugglewith economic adversity.
It is, curiously, the state that mostAmericans naturally associate with luxurious good times andunclouded skies: Hawaii.The Hawaiian economy has been stagnant for most of the decade.It has averaged only 0.5 percent growth per year since 1990; theBank of Hawaii is predicting no growth at all in 1998.In an opinion poll last month, 34 percent of those asked saidthey were worse off financially than a year ago, compared with only15 percent who felt better off.Japanese tourists, who account for more than a third of allHawaii's tourism, are still coming in record numbers, but they arespending less and going home sooner.
Their money, they find, doesnot go far; the yen has depreciated 40 percent against the dollarsince 1995.Mainland Americans, eager to spend some of their stock marketgains on a Hawaiian vacation, have taken up part of the slack.
Butthat is not much help.
The Japanese, who take more presents home,spend on average twice as much a day as Americans, despite theirrecent belt-tightening.The Hawaiian islands are also feeling the hangover from theparty they threw in the late 1980s, mostly with Japanese money.Japanese investors ploughed money into Hawaiian property, sendingprices to dizzying levels.The Hyatt Regency Waikoloa, on the big island of Hawaii, is atypical bubble development.
The 1,200-room hotel was built in 1988by a group of Japanese investors for an estimated $360 million.Guests are ferried to their rooms by water taxi; employees scurryabout in underground tunnels.
You can pay to swim with livedolphins in a 2 million-gallon lagoon.Then there has been bad luck.
Hurricane Iniki leveled the islandof Kauai in 1992, causing nearly $2 billion-worth of damage.In the state as a whole, eight sugar-cane plantations haveclosed in the past decade, in part because Asia can grow the cropmore cheaply, but also because Americans are using morehigh-fructose corn syrup and artificial sweeteners.True, but this is an expensive, highly-taxed, highly-regulatedlittle dot on the Pacific, and Hawaii cannot blame all its troubleson Asia; it is also a lousy place to do business.Not only is the cost of living roughly a third higher than theAmerican urban average, but government is far more centralized thanin other states.Hawaii, for example, is the only state with one unified schooldistrict operated at the state level.
(Not surprisingly, theschools get poor marks.
)Only Michigan and New York have a higher proportion of unionizedworkers.
The public-sector unions are particularly powerful.
Theresult is that Hawaii is 20 years behind other cities and states inwringing productivity gains out of its public workers.Each new public employee can count on 21 days of paid holiday,14 public holidays on which he gets paid, and 21 days of paid sickleave.
Should that prove too stressful, he must be caught drinkingon the job four times in a two-year period before being asked toresign; he is not sacked.The result is that public managers can spend years trying toaccomplish something as trivial as changing the route of a garbagetruck.Hawaii's powerful environmental groups are skeptical, if nothostile, to growth and development.
On its face, that is a goodthing.
Hawaii has some of the most spectacular scenery in theworld, and tourists fly thousands of miles to see its white sandbeaches and stunning volcanoes.These need to be protected.
Yet the people most fiercely opposedto development often earned their money on the mainland beforeretiring to Hawaii; they are not unemployed farm workers, who mightbenefit from a few more carefully managed projects.Take the contentious issue of the airport on Maui.
At present,the airport does not have a runway long enough to take large jetsfrom Asia.
A longer runway would bring more tourists, and wouldalso help business.Gary Gifford, the president of the Maui Land PineappleCompany, points out that the short runway makes it more difficultto get fresh pineapples to market.On the west coast of the island of Hawaii, a new internationalairport generated a 26 percent increase in tourist arrivals in1997.
But the anti-growth forces will not countenance a biggerairport on Maui and, so far, they are winning.
The floundering economy sets the stage for a political showdown.Hawaii is a Democratic bastion; the state has not had a Republicangovernor since 1962.
That may change in November.Cayetano is being challenged by Linda Lingle, the mayor of Maui.Lingle is not exactly what a political consultant would prescribe:she is a white Jewish Republican, born in St. Louis.
But she hasgained notice on Maui for getting things done and for drawingbusiness people into the administration.Her finance director, Travis Thompson, is a former Boeingemployee who thought he was retiring to Maui.
Lingle points outthat, while the rest of the state struggles to grow, Maui has addedjobs in five of the past six years.Can she win?
Lingle has been twice reelected as mayor, eventhough registered Democrats in Maui County outnumber Republicans byabout 30 to one.The powerful union leaders remain staunch Democrats; the rankand file are not so sure.
A recent poll put Lingle solidly ahead ofCayetano, 49 percent to 35 percent.The better question is whether she can really change things ifshe does win.
For all the angst over the economy, there istremendous grass-roots resistance to economic reform.In 1997, Cayetano and legislative leaders convened an EconomicRevitalization Task Force made up of government officials, businessleaders and organized labor.
Months later, the group returned withproposals for reducing the cost of doing business, streamlining theregulatory process, boosting tourism and improving the publicschools.Some changes were made, including a big cut in the personalincome tax, but much of the package was torn up.The Hawaiian economy has not fallen off the cliff.
But it has,after climbing for decades, reached a long plateau.
The state grewat an average rate of 4.4 percent between 1959 and 1990.The Sonics trailed the Los Angeles Lakers at halftime in Game 4of the Western Conference semifinals.
Even more frustrating, theywere getting walloped in the series on their way to playoffelimination.So Payton exploded in the locker room and in the face offormer coach George Karl, who barked back.
The scene reflected thetype of confrontations (usually over game-plan disagreements) thatKarl and Payton engaged in several times last season, seeminglymany times during their relationship.The Sonics went on to lose that game 112-100.
Payton followedthe tirade with an explosion on the court 31 points, 13 assistsand eight rebounds in 41 minutes yet his monster game did nottranslate into a victory.
One loss later, Karl was finished asSonics coach.If Paul Westphal did not know already, he has a clue now.Westphal, who was named the Sonics' new coach Wednesday, must getmore out of Payton in subtle ways than his predecessor did.Karl struggled with his point guard from start to finish.Veteran Sonic players complained privately that Karl establishedrules such as players must practice to play then let Paytonbend them with impunity.
They also complained that Payton sometimesstrayed from Karl's game plans or would sometimes distance himselffrom his teammates in critical moments of games when his leadershipwas needed.After the Sonics were dropped from the postseason, Karl met withpresident Wally Walker to discuss the team's future.
One of Karl'ssuggestions was that the Sonics should be open to the possibilityof trading Payton for several players if the team experienced moresecond-round jolts.
It was the second time in four years that Karlmade such a plea.Karl admired Payton's skills.
To most observers, Payton is thebest point guard in the game.
Karl also knows that Payton turnedhim into a $3.5 million coach.
Karl helped Payton become a $12million player.Their relationship, while respectful, was airtight only forpublic consumption.
Karl continuously insisted on more from Payton.He wanted a type of leadership Payton isn't ready to give.
InPayton's view, playing hard and producing every night is enough;Karl also wanted a second coming of Nate McMillan, a vocal leaderin the locker room as well as on the court.Payton, though, is a superstar.
And with superstars comebaggage.
Now, it is Westphal's turn to carry the load.Westphal knows the makeup of his best player.
Payton often doesnot practice.
He is volatile and emotional.
Payton is socompetitive that when he doesn't win, he transforms into someonewhose raging persona rivals the Incredible Hulk.
Karl never got agrip on that part of Payton.Perhaps Westphal will.
He is cut from the same cloth.
AlthoughWestphal is considered laid-back now, he was a terror growing up.Westphal told a childhood story about getting kicked out of asixth-grade game.
He thought the officiating was terrible andcommitted a flagrant foul.So his meeting with Payton in Oakland earlier this week wasn'tabout changing the eight-year Sonic.
Westphal merely opened thelines of communication as soon as possible.For as little as Chicago's Phil Jackson is given credit for theBulls' success, the glory is his.
Sure, Michael Jordan makes allthe game-winning baskets, but he is canning them Jackson's way.Payton's reluctance about practice is due in part to hischronically sore back, for which he gets regular treatment.
It'snot in the club's best interest that he risks aggravating theproblem in practice.Payton, though, has missed just two regular-season games hisentire career.
He is regarded as the Sonics' toughest player.
ThinkWestphal will ride him about practice?That is a theory Payton already believes in.
Westphal's problemwill be getting the 11 other Sonics to buy into it.HONOLULU As America basks in what may soon become the longesteconomic expansion in its history, one state continues to strugglewith economic adversity.
It is, curiously, the state that mostAmericans naturally associate with luxurious good times andunclouded skies: Hawaii.The Hawaiian economy has been stagnant for most of the decade.It has averaged only 0.5 percent growth per year since 1990; theBank of Hawaii is predicting no growth at all in 1998.In an opinion poll last month, 34 percent of those asked saidthey were worse off financially than a year ago, compared with only15 percent who felt better off.Japanese tourists, who account for more than a third of allHawaii's tourism, are still coming in record numbers, but they arespending less and going home sooner.
Their money, they find, doesnot go far; the yen has depreciated 40 percent against the dollarsince 1995.Mainland Americans, eager to spend some of their stock marketgains on a Hawaiian vacation, have taken up part of the slack.
Butthat is not much help.
The Japanese, who take more presents home,spend on average twice as much a day as Americans, despite theirrecent belt-tightening.The Hawaiian islands are also feeling the hangover from theparty they threw in the late 1980s, mostly with Japanese money.Japanese investors ploughed money into Hawaiian property, sendingprices to dizzying levels.The Hyatt Regency Waikoloa, on the big island of Hawaii, is atypical bubble development.
The 1,200-room hotel was built in 1988by a group of Japanese investors for an estimated $360 million.Guests are ferried to their rooms by water taxi; employees scurryabout in underground tunnels.
You can pay to swim with livedolphins in a 2 million-gallon lagoon.Then there has been bad luck.
Hurricane Iniki leveled the islandof Kauai in 1992, causing nearly $2 billion-worth of damage.In the state as a whole, eight sugar-cane plantations haveclosed in the past decade, in part because Asia can grow the cropmore cheaply, but also because Americans are using morehigh-fructose corn syrup and artificial sweeteners.True, but this is an expensive, highly-taxed, highly-regulatedlittle dot on the Pacific, and Hawaii cannot blame all its troubleson Asia; it is also a lousy place to do business.Not only is the cost of living roughly a third higher than theAmerican urban average, but government is far more centralized thanin other states.Hawaii, for example, is the only state with one unified schooldistrict operated at the state level.
(Not surprisingly, theschools get poor marks.
)Only Michigan and New York have a higher proportion of unionizedworkers.
The public-sector unions are particularly powerful.
Theresult is that Hawaii is 20 years behind other cities and states inwringing productivity gains out of its public workers.Each new public employee can count on 21 days of paid holiday,14 public holidays on which he gets paid, and 21 days of paid sickleave.
Should that prove too stressful, he must be caught drinkingon the job four times in a two-year period before being asked toresign; he is not sacked.The result is that public managers can spend years trying toaccomplish something as trivial as changing the route of a garbagetruck.Hawaii's powerful environmental groups are skeptical, if nothostile, to growth and development.
On its face, that is a goodthing.
Hawaii has some of the most spectacular scenery in theworld, and tourists fly thousands of miles to see its white sandbeaches and stunning volcanoes.These need to be protected.
Yet the people most fiercely opposedto development often earned their money on the mainland beforeretiring to Hawaii; they are not unemployed farm workers, who mightbenefit from a few more carefully managed projects.Take the contentious issue of the airport on Maui.
At present,the airport does not have a runway long enough to take large jetsfrom Asia.
A longer runway would bring more tourists, and wouldalso help business.Gary Gifford, the president of the Maui Land PineappleCompany, points out that the short runway makes it more difficultto get fresh pineapples to market.On the west coast of the island of Hawaii, a new internationalairport generated a 26 percent increase in tourist arrivals in1997.
But the anti-growth forces will not countenance a biggerairport on Maui and, so far, they are winning.
The floundering economy sets the stage for a political showdown.Hawaii is a Democratic bastion; the state has not had a Republicangovernor since 1962.
That may change in November.Cayetano is being challenged by Linda Lingle, the mayor of Maui.Lingle is not exactly what a political consultant would prescribe:she is a white Jewish Republican, born in St. Louis.
But she hasgained notice on Maui for getting things done and for drawingbusiness people into the administration.Her finance director, Travis Thompson, is a former Boeingemployee who thought he was retiring to Maui.
Lingle points outthat, while the rest of the state struggles to grow, Maui has addedjobs in five of the past six years.Can she win?
Lingle has been twice reelected as mayor, eventhough registered Democrats in Maui County outnumber Republicans byabout 30 to one.The powerful union leaders remain staunch Democrats; the rankand file are not so sure.
A recent poll put Lingle solidly ahead ofCayetano, 49 percent to 35 percent.The better question is whether she can really change things ifshe does win.
For all the angst over the economy, there istremendous grass-roots resistance to economic reform.In 1997, Cayetano and legislative leaders convened an EconomicRevitalization Task Force made up of government officials, businessleaders and organized labor.
Months later, the group returned withproposals for reducing the cost of doing business, streamlining theregulatory process, boosting tourism and improving the publicschools.Some changes were made, including a big cut in the personalincome tax, but much of the package was torn up.The Hawaiian economy has not fallen off the cliff.
But it has,after climbing for decades, reached a long plateau.
The state grewat an average rate of 4.4 percent between 1959 and 1990.
By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO It's impossible to call The Olympic Club tame,under any circumstances.
But the golfers playing in the 1998 U.S.Open Championship who didn't take advantage of what the course hadto offer Thursday might have missed their best opportunity forscoring.Conditions for the first round of the Open were about as good asthey are going to get.Despite some tough pin placements, the greens remainedreceptive, and those golfers in the fairway could get a littleaggressive with their second shots.
The result was nine under-parrounds on a course that some predicted might not give up a handfulof low scores all week.Payne Stewart showed how much damage could be done early, makingbirdies on the last three holes to take the first-round lead at4-under-par 66.
Stewart finished before many in the field had eventeed off, but his score held up.
Mark Carnevale ended up second at67, while Joe Durant, Tom Lehman, Jose Maria Olazabal and Bob Twaywere tied at 68.But perhaps the biggest cheers were for a golfer who finished at4-over-par 74.
Casey Martin, who has been the center of attentionall week for using a golf cart, was clearly the crowd favorite.Martin said he had trouble seeing on his final two holes, whichmight have contributed to his bogey-bogey finish.
But for theremainder of the field, patience was the most important quality,and Stewart had the most of it.There were certainly players who could relate to that.Pre-tournament favorite David Duval ended up at 5-over-par 75,while Davis Love III closed at 78 and defending champion Ernie Elswas at 75.
Tiger Woods started off well, getting to 2-under butthen struggled down the stretch and found himself 4-over for theopening round.But for those who kept their cool during the rough moments andnearly everyone had at least one there were birdies to be made.Durant, who is making his first Open appearance, was the onlyplayer to really challenge Stewart's hold on the top spot all day.Durant, a former Nike Tour player who is in his second year on thePGA Tour, came out hot, making the turn at 31 and then taking lonepossession of the lead at 5-under when he made a spectacular pitchto within one foot on No.
12 and sank the birdie putt.But Durant stumbled on No.
14, leaving his chip shot short ofthe green and three-putting from the fringe for double bogey.
Hegot one stroke back with a birdie on No.
15 but added bogeys onNos.
16 and 17.Durant played in the same threesome as Carnevale, who wasequally pleased with his effort at Olympic Club.
This is onlyCarnevale's second Open, and he hasn't had a great year on the PGATour to date.
In 15 events, he has missed the cut 10 times.
But hecertainly found his game in the first round.But as the veterans in the field can attest, getting there andstaying there are two different things.
Stewart won his first U.S.Open in 1991 and then didn't win again on tour until the 1995 ShellHouston Open.
And he hasn't won since.
Still, Stewart has playedsome good golf this year and said he felt his game was U.S.Open-ready coming into this week.Of course, 4 under par is even better.
Stewart ended his firstround with a flourish.
After making eight consecutive pars, Stewartcut lose with a 9-iron for his third shot on the par-5 16th hole,hitting it to within eight inches and birdie.Then came his most heroic effort of the day.
The 17th hole is amonster hole, measuring out at 468 yards for a par-4.
Any golfer inthe field would gladly take par there and leave.
But Stewart lethis 2-iron run up 15 feet onto the green, and then he drained a45-foot putt for birdie.Stewart appeared headed for trouble on No.
18, when he sent his2-iron into the right rough and then left his 8-iron 12 feet fromthe pin.
But he sank the putt for his third birdie and couldn'thave been happier.JASPER, TEXAS At dusk on Friday night, at the end of adifficult week in the east Texas town of Jasper, 80 or so boys wereplaying basketball in the park.Two games were in progress, one at each net.
Boys rose up,caught air, dunked baskets.
Cars were drawn up close to the court,doors open, pumping out a heavy urban beat into the sultry air.Every player was black, all the attendant girlfriends were black,all the hangers-on were black.
There was not a white in sight,apart from this correspondent.The scene, and the conversation, would not be unusual ininner-city America.
In a town of 8,000 people, it gives pause forthought.Jasper is a quiet, pretty place, with forests and lakes thatlook more like Finland than Texas.
Down one country road you pass acreek, a meadow dappled in sunshine, then you go on into denseemerald forest.This spot is where the last sinews on James Byrd's neck toreloose and his head the face already shredded on the tarmac bounced off into a ditch.The murder by three white men of Byrd, a happy-go-lucky blackman known in Jasper for singing songs and hitching rides, hasreminded Jasper and the rest of America that relations betweenthe races are as vexed as ever.Unlike the rest of Texas, which breaks down along Anglo-Latinolines, east Texas is almost wholly black-and-white.
This isparticularly true of Jasper, which is 55 percent white and 42percent black.The knee-jerk reaction of the national media, as the storybroke, was to present east Texas as a white-trash outpost whosepublic offices are occupied by closet bigots.
In fact, as thejournalists soon discovered, Jasper has a black mayor and a blackschool principal.Even the Black Panthers, who sallied into town for a shamelesspublicity session, praised the white sheriff, Billy Rowles, for hisefficient handling of the case.
Byrd's family offered unconditionalforgiveness to his white killers.Many times in the week, militant blacks in town from distantparts to preach their particular form of racial separatism wereshouted down not by whites but by blacks, who said they abhorredviolence and vengeance.
On the surface, outrage and sorrow broughtJasper together.The townsfolk were adamant that this awful crime did notrepresent them.
This was true.
What represents the town, and makesit so typical, is something much more subtle: a thousand smallprejudices and slights that blacks in east Texas feel, but whitesrarely notice.It bothers blacks in Jasper that the bank-tellers are almost allwhite, and that they rarely see a black waitress in the moreexpensive local restaurants.A group of black maids at a local hotel (speaking anonymouslyfor fear of managerial retribution) were particularly candid.
Theyfelt humiliated, they said, when security people followed themaround the aisles in the Wal-Mart.Younger blacks were particularly unhappy with Jasper's blackleaders, who, they said, were too deferential to whites.
It hadtaken the death of Byrd, they claimed, to wake up the local chapterof the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People(NAACP).On Saturday, Byrd's funeral showed the unstated segregation.
Ofthe 1,000 or so people who attended the service, fewer than 50 werewhite.Byrd was laid out in a black funeral home, eulogized in a blackchurch, and buried in the back part of the town cemetery, whereblacks have always been buried, out of view.White supremacy may be marginalized, but it is still menacing.The sheriff's claim that there are no Ku Klux Klansmen in Jasperappears to be false.
A local Klan leader insists that his group hasa strong presence there.And already the town is bracing itself for a Klan march on June27, with its potential for a bloody showdown between white bigotsand Black Panther hotheads.The murder has also shed light on the fact that state prisons inTexas and across the South have become purveyors of whitesupremacy, recruiting susceptible men into violent gangs such asthe Aryan Brotherhood.And what of Jasper?
This is a community of mutual respect, butit is still distinctly divided at all the levels that matter inordinary life.What the boys on the basketball court cared about was notwhether white kids came and played ball with them.
They cared aboutgood jobs, fair treatment and about the fact that Dennis Rodman,the bad-boy star of the Chicago Bulls, had elected to pay forByrd's funeral.
It sounded awfully like separate but equal.
(To publish this compelling 1,025-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
JASPER, TEXAS At dusk on Friday night, at the end of adifficult week in the east Texas town of Jasper, 80 or so boys wereplaying basketball in the park.Two games were in progress, one at each net.
Boys rose up,caught air, dunked baskets.
Cars were drawn up close to the court,doors open, pumping out a heavy urban beat into the sultry air.Every player was black, all the attendant girlfriends were black,all the hangers-on were black.
There was not a white in sight,apart from this correspondent.The scene, and the conversation, would not be unusual ininner-city America.
In a town of 8,000 people, it gives pause forthought.Jasper is a quiet, pretty place, with forests and lakes thatlook more like Finland than Texas.
Down one country road you pass acreek, a meadow dappled in sunshine, then you go on into denseemerald forest.This spot is where the last sinews on James Byrd's neck toreloose and his head the face already shredded on the tarmac bounced off into a ditch.The murder by three white men of Byrd, a happy-go-lucky blackman known in Jasper for singing songs and hitching rides, hasreminded Jasper and the rest of America that relations betweenthe races are as vexed as ever.Unlike the rest of Texas, which breaks down along Anglo-Latinolines, east Texas is almost wholly black-and-white.
This isparticularly true of Jasper, which is 55 percent white and 42percent black.The knee-jerk reaction of the national media, as the storybroke, was to present east Texas as a white-trash outpost whosepublic offices are occupied by closet bigots.
In fact, as thejournalists soon discovered, Jasper has a black mayor and a blackschool principal.Even the Black Panthers, who sallied into town for a shamelesspublicity session, praised the white sheriff, Billy Rowles, for hisefficient handling of the case.
Byrd's family offered unconditionalforgiveness to his white killers.Many times in the week, militant blacks in town from distantparts to preach their particular form of racial separatism wereshouted down not by whites but by blacks, who said they abhorredviolence and vengeance.
On the surface, outrage and sorrow broughtJasper together.The townsfolk were adamant that this awful crime did notrepresent them.
This was true.
What represents the town, and makesit so typical, is something much more subtle: a thousand smallprejudices and slights that blacks in east Texas feel, but whitesrarely notice.It bothers blacks in Jasper that the bank-tellers are almost allwhite, and that they rarely see a black waitress in the moreexpensive local restaurants.A group of black maids at a local hotel (speaking anonymouslyfor fear of managerial retribution) were particularly candid.
Theyfelt humiliated, they said, when security people followed themaround the aisles in the Wal-Mart.Younger blacks were particularly unhappy with Jasper's blackleaders, who, they said, were too deferential to whites.
It hadtaken the death of Byrd, they claimed, to wake up the local chapterof the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People(NAACP).On Saturday, Byrd's funeral showed the unstated segregation.
Ofthe 1,000 or so people who attended the service, fewer than 50 werewhite.Byrd was laid out in a black funeral home, eulogized in a blackchurch, and buried in the back part of the town cemetery, whereblacks have always been buried, out of view.White supremacy may be marginalized, but it is still menacing.The sheriff's claim that there are no Ku Klux Klansmen in Jasperappears to be false.
A local Klan leader insists that his group hasa strong presence there.And already the town is bracing itself for a Klan march on June27, with its potential for a bloody showdown between white bigotsand Black Panther hotheads.The murder has also shed light on the fact that state prisons inTexas and across the South have become purveyors of whitesupremacy, recruiting susceptible men into violent gangs such asthe Aryan Brotherhood.And what of Jasper?
This is a community of mutual respect, butit is still distinctly divided at all the levels that matter inordinary life.What the boys on the basketball court cared about was notwhether white kids came and played ball with them.
They cared aboutgood jobs, fair treatment and about the fact that Dennis Rodman,the bad-boy star of the Chicago Bulls, had elected to pay forByrd's funeral.
It sounded awfully like separate but equal.
(To publish this compelling 1,025-word article, it must bepurchased the rate is not prohibitive from New York TimesSyndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposedto do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for afinal settlement with the Palestinians.Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side ofthe Jordan Valley.
Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertileregions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticulturalland.After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, thePalestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.But the restrictions and confiscations continue.Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research stationin the valley, which helped farmers with crop research andtechnology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to thePalestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one ofthose closed security zones.The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made securityzones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley.
These hills aretraditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, whoare now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporaryterritorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Osloagreement into permanent facts.About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in thevalley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that theycome under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.The effect of these measures is the steady migration ofPalestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as EastJerusalem and Nablus.It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparingagainst.
(To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposedto do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for afinal settlement with the Palestinians.Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side ofthe Jordan Valley.
Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertileregions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticulturalland.After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, thePalestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.But the restrictions and confiscations continue.Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research stationin the valley, which helped farmers with crop research andtechnology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to thePalestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one ofthose closed security zones.The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made securityzones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley.
These hills aretraditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, whoare now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporaryterritorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Osloagreement into permanent facts.About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in thevalley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that theycome under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.The effect of these measures is the steady migration ofPalestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as EastJerusalem and Nablus.It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparingagainst.
(To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
JERICHO Whether or not the Israelis do what they are supposedto do under the Oslo agreements, they continue to prepare for afinal settlement with the Palestinians.Some 35,000 Palestinians live or work on the West Bank side ofthe Jordan Valley.
Covering an area of 700,000 dunums (175,000hectares), the valley is one of the West Bank's most fertileregions, containing 60 percent of the Palestinians' horticulturalland.After the signing of the Oslo peace agreement in 1993, thePalestinians hoped they might be able to add to the developed area.But the restrictions and confiscations continue.Jawad Salah cites the case of an agricultural research stationin the valley, which helped farmers with crop research andtechnology; Israel has refused to transfer the station to thePalestinian Authority by declaring its 300 dunums to be one ofthose closed security zones.The Israelis have also, in the past three years, made securityzones of many of the hills in the Jordan Valley.
These hills aretraditionally used as grazing pastures by Bedouin shepherds, whoare now being forced to abandon some of their goats and sheep.Worse, the Israeli army appears to be turning the temporaryterritorial divisions that exist in the West Bank under the Osloagreement into permanent facts.About 6,000 of the Palestinians who work on the farms in thevalley are seasonal laborers who live in villages near Nablus.These are in Area B under Oslo's classification, meaning that theycome under Palestinian civilian jurisdiction.The effect of these measures is the steady migration ofPalestinians westwards from the valley to urban areas such as EastJerusalem and Nablus.It is precisely this eventuality that Netanyahu is preparingagainst.
(To publish this 625-word article, it must be purchased the rateis not prohibitive from New York Times Syndicate salesrepresentative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)
(EDITORS: Please note that this article is NOT available to clientsin Canada EXCEPT to The Toronto Globe Mail.)
By DALE ROBERTSON c. 1998, Houston Chronicle HOUSTON Unfortunately, Mark McGwire doesn't care for theattention.
He'd prefer to hit his home runs surrounded by peace andquiet.
He'd swap the batter's box for a vacuum chamber any day.Not an option, though, is it?
The world is fast becoming hisfish bowl.
The press corps' full-court press is only now starting,and as the McDinger count mounts, which seems as inevitable as anew record for times being intentionally walked, the questions willincrease at the same pace.
And they'll probably get even dumberthan he already thinks they are.Each night this week, McGwire's pre-game blasts have traveledfarther and farther.
One among many Thursday landed three rowsbeneath the upper-deck scoreboard in the Astrodome.
Impressivestuff that, the kind of stuff you're going to tell yourgrandchildren about someday.But more impressive was what he did for real.
His 33rd home runin his 63rd game, coming in the fifth inning at the expense of analready beaten-down Shane Reynolds, traveled almost that far 449feet, according to the boys in the computer room.
It also loweredhis 1998 ratio of homers to at-bats to one of the former for every6.6 of the latter.How good is that?
His career ratio is already the best ever,1-to-11.54, ahead of Babe Ruth's 1-to-11.76.
Were he to continue atsuch a preposterous pace, which would be flat-out impossible exceptfor the fact that he already has kept it going deep into June,he'll hit 80 home runs by the end of the season.What McGwire himself will talk about in the interim remains tobe seen, but it's likely to have a surly, argumentative tone.
Ifhe's feeling good as he goes about trying to destroy sport's mostfamous record, he's not showing it during his post-game rapsessions with his friends in the media.He claims to see no reason for the fuss, that it's way too earlyto get breathless, never mind that he already has set themajor-league record for the most homers by the end of June, with 11June dates left for the Cardinals.I've been assured he will be a delight come September, when theRuth/Maris numbers are squarely in his cross hairs and he feels amore pressing need to reflect on his place in the cosmos.
Still,you wonder why he can't relax, smile a bit and at least let himselfappear to be having fun.McGwire is an equal-opportunity mauler.
He unapologeticallyroughs up everybody.
Ray Lankford, leading off the fifth, had justknocked a Reynolds pitch into the cheap seats.
No matter.
WhenMcGwire came up, he didn't give squat about Shane's hurt feelings.He just parked another into some even cheaper seats with a flick ofhis thick wrists.
It was his second in two nights after a rarethree-game hiatus.The monster mash gave the Cardinals just enough of a margin towin the series.
So, in the 7-6 squeaker, McGwire's shot would bethe difference.
He had to speak afterward.
He makes his own rules.If he figures in the outcome, and only if, then he will sufferfools, albeit not gladly.Reynolds, for his part, was rendered speechless after what couldonly be described as a shaky outing.
Hey, how would you feel ifsomebody had gone that deep off you?These days, they're almost all McGwire's days, whether he likesthem or not.
By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO When Tom Lehman walked off the 10th green Thursdayat The Olympic Club, it looked like his three-year run ofcontending at the U.S. Open was in danger of coming to an end.Lehman had just three-putted from four feet for a double-bogey6, putting himself at 2-over for the day.
But Lehman said that morethan anything, the hole strengthened his resolve to play better onthe remaining eight holes.Lehman ended up making birdies on three of the final four holesand finished only two strokes off the lead at 2-under-par 68.
That,of course, sets him up nicely for another run at yet another Opentitle.
In the last three years, Lehman has finished third, tied forsecond, and third at the U.S. Open.
But Lehman insisted Thursdaythat this is a tougher course for him than the last three.Lehman showed on the back side of the first round just how goodhis best can be.
He sank a 15-footer for birdie on No.
11 and thendrained a long 30-foot birdie putt on No.
15.
Lehman added a12-footer on No.
16 and closed with a six-foot birdie on No.
18.But Lehman said that perhaps his best effort was his par save onNo.
12, where he hit way right off the tee, had to pitch back outinto the fairway and then hit a sand wedge to within 10 feet andmade the putt.It also helped ease the pain of the double bogey on No.
10, whenLehman hit his 7-iron second shot just left of the green, made agreat chip to four feet and then three-putted.Lehman said coming into the tournament that he thought he shouldhave a good week.
He finished third at last week's Buick Classic,closing with a spectacular 65.
So after his early troublesThursday, Lehman was more than pleased with the way his day endedup.Beneath a swaying Ponderosa pine, Adam Blunt stirs a largekettle of beef stew with the same stick that just stoked his fireand explains why he threw away a six-figure career to feed hippies.Blunt will be serving food and coffee 24 hours a day for thenext two weeks as more than 20,000 members of the Rainbow Familystream into his campsite in the forest west of Springerville.His hair matted and his skin darkened by sun and dirt, Bluntsaid money can't buy the feeling he has at that moment watching hispot reach a boil.Because Rainbow gatherings typically take place on public landand attract tens of thousands of people, the Forest Service hascreated a seven-member task force that follows the Rainbows,briefing communities on what to expect from the influx, and trying,usually in vain, to get the family to sign a use permit.The task force is in Springerville because on Sunday, theRainbows officially chose the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest fortheir annual Fourth of July Gathering For World Peace.Task force members found out about the site the same way manyRainbows did, by checking the group's Internet site.
Locals got aclue when busloads of people started showing up in town.
If thegathering's projected size is accurate, Rainbows could soonoutnumber area residents by a 4-1 ratio.Davis said the size of the gatherings are detrimental to theforest, and the Rainbows' refusal to sign use permits is not fairto others who comply.
So far, the rancher who owns the water rightsto Carnero Lake and a few surrounding springs has refused to grantthe Rainbows permission to drink and bathe.
The Forest Service isnegotiating for a peaceful solution, so far unsuccessfully.The ecologically conscious Rainbows hotly dispute claims thatthey damage the forest.
They say the forests belong to everyone,and they plan to leave behind about 60 members to break down campsand reseed the trampled meadows.Davis admitted that the Rainbows do a good job at picking upafter themselves but said the sheer size of the event means thearea will be damaged.In the camp, there is at least one dog for every three people.Last year in Oregon, the Rainbows left behind at least 100 dogs.Those that were caught had to be destroyed because of a parvooutbreak, Davis said.Aside from the forest, is what happens to the small communitiesthey typically invade.
The twin towns of Springerville and Eagarare home to only about 5,000 combined, and Apache is the mosteconomically depressed county in the state.Many Rainbows have money and are spending it in stores, but toomany are relying on a rapidly disappearing charity system.
TheRainbows have been arriving for less than a week and already thewelcome mats have been pulled in.Police have written dozens of citations for panhandling,shoplifting and vagrancy, and most businesses have closed theirpublic restrooms.An incident Sunday also has led businesses to lock theirdumpsters.
A small party of Rainbow women went into a conveniencestore and bathed in the bathroom, which is in the pantry.
Whilethere they also urinated on several cases of beer and food, policesaid.
The goods had to be thrown out, and when they were, theRainbows were waiting, according to Eagar police.That is one of the many tactics Rainbows have used at pastgatherings to get stores to throw away food, Davis said.
Another ispoking holes in the plastic wrap on meat.
The Forest Service taskforce has urged stores to lock trash bins so there is no reward forthis type of behavior.Two Rainbows were hospitalized Monday after a car accident, andthere has been a growing stream of visitors in the local hospitalemergency room for cuts, broken bones and other care.The small hospital in Pineville, Ore., where the Rainbowsgathered last year, is still owed $32,000 in medical bills.
DaveRoss, CEO for the White Mountain Communities Hospital, expects toface the same problem.With Rainbows arriving from practically every state, and fewcarrying insurance, it will be up to the county's indigenthealth-care fund to shoulder the burden when they get hurt.The hospital plans to set up a first-aid station near thegathering to care for minor injuries, he added.A large meadow near Carnero Lake will serve as the maingathering site.
On July 4, the group will remain silent until noon,than gather in a massive circle to pray for world peace.But now, most of the 500 to 600 early arrivals are concentratedabout a mile from the meadow in a ramshackle parking lot thatresembles a graveyard for buses.
The Rainbows, whose bond isnon-violence and an aversion to commercial and governmentbureaucracy, have been gathering since 1972.
Inside a gathering,eccentricity is commonplace.The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for rerunson AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPIDataNews.OIL-SMUGGLE (Washington) Iraq is smuggling large volumes ofoil into Turkey in violation of U.N. sanctions, U.S. and Turkishofficials say.
By James Risen.JAPAN-ASSESS (Tokyo) News Analysis: In a few weeks, PrimeMinister Ryutaro Hashimoto will face nationwide elections as hepresides over the worst recession in more than half a century, alimp stock market and the highest unemployment rate since recordsbegan to be kept.
Yet his governing Liberal Democratic Party isoverwhelmingly expected to do very well.
The latest polls show itwith more than five times as much support as any other politicalparty in Japan.
By Nicholas D. Kristof.CHINA-MIDDLECLASS (Beijing) Like a phoenix rising from theashes of communism, the last few years have seen the a stunninggrowth of a flourishing Chinese middle class.
Ten years ago, thisgroup did not even exist.
Today its core of independent businessmenhas been joined by a growing number of private-sector lawyers,artists and employees of joint-venture companies.
It is firstdefined by what its members have: computers, microwaves, interiordecorators and increasingly, cars and homes.
But the rapidaccumulation of material things has left its psychological mark aswell, infusing this group with a kind of independence, and carefreeoptimism, that has not existed in China for decades.
By ElisabethRosenthal.KOSOVO-REBELS (Pristina, Yugoslavia) After taking losses intheir fight with the Yugoslav military and bolstered by a hugeinfusion of weapons and fighters from Albania, separatist rebels inKosovo Province have begun to hit back in recent days.
By ChrisHedges.CHINA-OPERA (New York) Chinese authorities in Shanghai detainthe shipment of sets and equipment for a classic Chinese opera thatis scheduled to be the centerpiece of next month's Lincoln CenterFestival.
By James R. Oestreich.NY-EMERGENCY-PLAN (New York) New York City, long viewed as oneof the world's most vulnerable places to terrorist attack, hasquietly undertaken an ambitious effort to foil strikes with deadlygerms or chemicals, according to city officials.
By Judith Millerand William J. Broad.TOBACCO-SUITS (Undated) Even before the failure of the tobaccobill, tobacco companies faced 800 lawsuits that have been filedaround the country.
Two major trials of class actions suits arescheduled to begin soon.
More are likely.
By Barry Meier.RICHARDSON-PROFILE In choosing Bill Richardson to be his newenergy secretary, President Clinton has given him an assignmentwhich traditionally carries little glamour and less opportunity fora high public profile.
But no one in the capital expects Richardsonto recede into relative obscurity.
By Neil A. Lewis.RISQUE-AD-COLUMN (Undated) Sales pitches for a wide variety ofproducts are being infused with increasingly explicit images andlanguage, which until recently had been considered too daring forconventional advertising.
By Stuart Elliott.EXCHANGE-MARKETPLACE (Undated) Just when it looked as if theproposed merger between the American Stock Exchange and the NasdaqStock Market had won the dissidents over, another critic has poppedup.
And this one is bringing the specter of antitrust into themerger.
By Gretchen Morgenson.GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (San Francisco) Sports of the Times columnby Dave Anderson on Casey Martin's adventure as the first playerever to ride a cart in the U.S. Open.SOC-WORLDCUP-VECSEY (Paris) Sports of the Times column onhooliganism at TRACK-USA (New Orleans) Advance on the USA Trackand Field championships that start on Friday.
By Frank Litsky.The Sonics trailed the Los Angeles Lakers at halftime in Game 4of the Western Conference semifinals.
Even more frustrating, theywere getting walloped in the series on their way to playoffelimination.So Payton exploded in the locker room and in the face offormer coach George Karl, who barked back.
The scene reflected thetype of confrontations (usually over game-plan disagreements) thatKarl and Payton engaged in several times last season, seeminglymany times during their relationship.The Sonics went on to lose that game 112-100.
Payton followedthe tirade with an explosion on the court 31 points, 13 assistsand eight rebounds in 41 minutes yet his monster game did nottranslate into a victory.
One loss later, Karl was finished asSonics coach.If Paul Westphal did not know already, he has a clue now.Westphal, who was named the Sonics' new coach Wednesday, must getmore out of Payton in subtle ways than his predecessor did.Karl struggled with his point guard from start to finish.Veteran Sonic players complained privately that Karl establishedrules such as players must practice to play then let Paytonbend them with impunity.
They also complained that Payton sometimesstrayed from Karl's game plans or would sometimes distance himselffrom his teammates in critical moments of games when his leadershipwas needed.After the Sonics were dropped from the postseason, Karl met withpresident Wally Walker to discuss the team's future.
One of Karl'ssuggestions was that the Sonics should be open to the possibilityof trading Payton for several players if the team experienced moresecond-round jolts.
It was the second time in four years that Karlmade such a plea.Karl admired Payton's skills.
To most observers, Payton is thebest point guard in the game.
Karl also knows that Payton turnedhim into a $3.5 million coach.
Karl helped Payton become a $12million player.Their relationship, while respectful, was airtight only forpublic consumption.
Karl continuously insisted on more from Payton.He wanted a type of leadership Payton isn't ready to give.
InPayton's view, playing hard and producing every night is enough;Karl also wanted a second coming of Nate McMillan, a vocal leaderin the locker room as well as on the court.Payton, though, is a superstar.
And with superstars comebaggage.
Now, it is Westphal's turn to carry the load.Westphal knows the makeup of his best player.
Payton often doesnot practice.
He is volatile and emotional.
Payton is socompetitive that when he doesn't win, he transforms into someonewhose raging persona rivals the Incredible Hulk.
Karl never got agrip on that part of Payton.Perhaps Westphal will.
He is cut from the same cloth.
AlthoughWestphal is considered laid-back now, he was a terror growing up.Westphal told a childhood story about getting kicked out of asixth-grade game.
He thought the officiating was terrible andcommitted a flagrant foul.So his meeting with Payton in Oakland earlier this week wasn'tabout changing the eight-year Sonic.
Westphal merely opened thelines of communication as soon as possible.For as little as Chicago's Phil Jackson is given credit for theBulls' success, the glory is his.
Sure, Michael Jordan makes allthe game-winning baskets, but he is canning them Jackson's way.Payton's reluctance about practice is due in part to hischronically sore back, for which he gets regular treatment.
It'snot in the club's best interest that he risks aggravating theproblem in practice.Payton, though, has missed just two regular-season games hisentire career.
He is regarded as the Sonics' toughest player.
ThinkWestphal will ride him about practice?That is a theory Payton already believes in.
Westphal's problemwill be getting the 11 other Sonics to buy into it.The guy in the funny clothes Thursday mocked the torture chamberknown as the 98th U.S. Open, sidestepping the unforgiving rough andstriding jauntily through the eucalyptus and cyprus trees.
Hedidn't stop until climbing atop the first-round leaderboard with afour-under-par 66.That was good for a one-shot edge over Mark Carnevale.
That wasreason enough for the USGA to consider testing only his equipment.Stewart, 41 and in decline since winning a pair of majors, madeit look easy when things were meant to be flat-out miserable.Player after player had declared Olympic's four-foot rough asunfair as any ever encountered on the tour.
Par golf was predicted.With a shrug and a 2-iron, the carefree Stewart barely flinchedon a cool, overcast day in the Bay Area.Stewart also was uncommonly good as he finished.
He birdied thelast three holes on the course, something done only once before by Denis Watson at Olympic's 1987 U.S. Open.
He birdied the par-4,468-yard 17th a feat matched by only three others, Carnevale,Jason Allen and Chris Tidland.
He was one of nine players among the156 to break par, and his 66 was the lowest first-round score infour Olympic Opens.And he seemed to greatly enjoy himself and his new-foundsuccess.
Meeting with reporters, Stewart feigned mock horror whenUSGA official Les Unger pointed out that it had been a couple yearssince he had been in the U.S. Open press tent.Rightly so.
He had finished well out of the running in theprevious four U.S.
Opens, with 21st his best effort.
He had wononly once on the tour over the past seven years, since claiming the1991 U.S. Open in a playoff with Scott Simpson (his other majorvictory was the 1989 PGA Championship).
In his most recent outing,The Memorial, he had shot an 83, taking a 10 on one hole.Thursday, Stewart was a new man.
He was dressed the same asusual, wearing one of his trademark ensembles, a blue and plaidlook, complete with cap and knickers.
But his game was sharper,mixing pinpoint accuracy, great resilience and, admittedly, dumbluck in piecing together a five-birdie, one-bogey effort.On the short but tricky 288-yard seventh, he nearly holed out,leaving a wedge shot three inches from the cup.
Tap-in birdie.
Onthe 609-yard 16th, he left an iron shot eight inches from the hole.Another tap-in birdie.On the 17th, a converted par-5 and Olympic's toughest hole,Stewart launched a 2-iron out of the rough and onto the green.
Herammed in a 45-foot putt for birdie and wiggled his body incelebration.
On the 347-yard 18th, he curled in a 12-footer forbirdie, again escaping the rough off the tee.
Playingconservatively, he used his driver just three times.His closest pursuer was another unlikely Open contender,Carnevale, who shot a bogey-free 67.
The stocky 38-year-old golferhad struggled mightily this season, missing the cut in 10 of 15events and finishing no higher than 41st at the Phoenix Open.But he hung with Stewart.
Even when the inevitable happened when he realized how much uncharted territory he had covered.
Hehas one tour victory to his name, the 1992 Chattanooga Classic.
Notexactly a major.Daly, winner of the 1991 PGA Championship and 1995 British Open,has forsaken his driver this week, a courageous move for a manlonger off the tee than anyone.
He has turned to his 3-wood,leaving him some 35 to 40 yards shorter than the norm and concedinglong drive stats and bonus money.
He's not happy, but he's incontention.SEATTLE Bad as it might get for Paul Westphal next season combine the NBA labor dispute with a significant team rebuild, aswell as Gary Payton's mercurial temperament, and prospects are notpretty it won't compare to the tub o' goo he found the first timehe replaced a local Sonic hero.Westphal retains a souvenir from his unlamented Seattle seasonof 1980-81, when he was traded from Phoenix for fellow All-Starguard Dennis Johnson.Two years after they won the NBA title, the Sonics fell to 34-48and last in the Pacific Division the fastest, steepest fall for achampion in NBA history.
Along with leading scorer Gus Williams'season-long contract holdout and forward Lonnie Shelton's brokenwrist after 14 games, Westphal's Sonic career lasted just 36 gamesbecause of a foot injury.Since he was a free agent after the season and left Seattle forthe New York Knicks, and since Johnson went on to stardom with theSuns and Boston Celtics, including two championships, it can beargued that Westphal was part of the worst trade in Seattle prosports history (remember, Brian Bosworth was a draft choice).The Johnson trade ushered in a decade of mediocrity that didn'tend until Karl arrived in 1992.
Now, after six years averagingnearly 60 regular-season wins, the Sonics are at a crossroadssimilar to the one two decades earlier on the backside ofsuccess, striving to stay elite.But the travail of his first Sonic go-round provides a couple oflessons useful this time: Things can slip away quickly, and onecan't assume that today's pain will be tomorrow's pain.Based on the disparity between the Sonics and Lakers in theplayoffs, and the disparities between L.A. and Utah, and Utah andChicago, it's clear that the 60-win benchmark in theexpansion-bloated NBA has been cheapened dramatically.By April, the aging Sonics had slid considerably.
At least fourplayers in the rotation Jim McIlvaine, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkinsand Dale Ellis could no longer play the Sonic-style defense,because of injury, age or inability.
Should there have been aninjury to any one of the remaining regulars, the Sonics were doomedto another first-round disaster.While the return of Gary Payton, Vin Baker, Detlef Schrempf andHersey Hawkins would seem to bode well, they each did enough thingspoorly in the playoffs to suggest that the team Westphal inheritsis more vulnerable than it appears on paper.Sonic president Wally Walker will need to do more than simplysign up free agents to fill vacancies.
Years of failure to developyoung talent under Karl means Walker has to be extremely aggressiveand/or lucky to avoid a 10- to 12-game dropoff.Think Karl would have said that?
When Walker talks of Karl'sinability to be on the same page with the organization, it has todo more with unshared goals such as developing young players thanit does with leaks to the press.A growing assumption is that Payton will be the same headache tomanage for Westphal that he was to Karl.
While Payton, 30 by nextseason, isn't likely to transform as Johnson did, his dealings withWestphal might prove more positive.Westphal is a cooler, less emotional commander than Karl, whosetemper made for regular flashpoints with the equally dyspepticPayton.
The relationship between Payton and Karl was frayed enoughto have become counterproductive.Westphal made clear he will indulge a double standard withPayton, as he did with Charles Barkley in Phoenix.
If thatarrangement is understood and accepted by the team from the start,rather than develop awkwardly over time, the tension dropssubstantially.The x-factor in the Sonic future is the bitterness that will begenerated from the impending lockout of NBA players forecast forJuly 1.The conflict has already prompted a withdrawal of NBA stars,including Payton and Baker, from the team that will represent theU.S.
at the World Championships in Athens in August.If they don't return, among the options USA Basketball isconsidering is suing the individual players for breach of contract.If that won't get Payton double ornery, nothing will.Hard to know where the lockout, as well as the other variables,will leave the Sonics by November.
But if it gets really bad,Westphal still has his bedpan.DENVER Bill Russell went to bed at 5:30 Thursday morning, butto say he slept would be a stretch.There was the delayed flight from San Diego on top of a losingstreak on top of injuries and the fact that everyone back in L.A.seems to be yelling for his head.Coors Field did not seem like the place to get away from it all.But less than 24 hours after the most demoralizing loss of theseason, Russell's Dodgers were the happiest they had been in weekswith a 5-0 victory over the Colorado Rockies in front of a crowd of48,029.Dave Mlicki recorded just the eighth shutout in the four-yearhistory of Coors Field and Eric Karros drove in all five runs,including a three-run homer that nicked off the left-field foulpole.For the record, the Dodgers (35-36) ended a four-game losingstreak and stayed within 11{ games of the National LeagueWest-leading San Diego Padres, who rallied Thursday to win their10th straight.But as the rap music blared in the post-game clubhouse, thenumbers didn't seem to matter.
As Chan Ho Park danced from theshower to his locker, Russell smiled.
He didn't care that theonce-formidable Rockies are a pitiful 11-21 at home.
He has enoughto think about.Russell got to relax a little after Karros' first-inning homeroff Jamey Wright (5-7) gave the Dodgers a 3-0 lead.
In a seasonweighed down by an ailing left knee, Karros had his second five-RBIgame.
He has 19 RBI in his other 45 games.With Bobby Bonilla, Eric Young and Raul Mondesi all out withinjuries, Karros' effort was critical.
But it was Mlicki'sperformance that might have been even more important.Before the game, Ramon Martinez arrived in Denver afterreceiving a third opinion on his injured right shoulder.
Notedorthopedist William Andrews saw what the others saw torncartilage and rotator cuff that likely will require season-endingsurgery.While Martinez considers his future, Mlicki has been the onlyDodgers starter to step up.
In his last two starts, Mlicki,acquired from the New York Mets in the Hideo Nomo deal, has allowedone run in 17 innings.Against the Rockies, he allowed just two runners to reach baseand got 15 ground-ball outs.
Unlike Wednesday, when Roger Cedeno'serror cost the Dodgers in the 12th, the club played great defensebehind Mlicki.Paul Konerko, starting at third for Bonilla, made a diving stopof Dante Bichette's fourth-inning liner that looked even moreimportant when Vinny Castilla followed with a double to the gap inright-center.Mlicki (3-4) got double plays in the first after Neifi Perezopened with a single and in the ninth after Todd Helton opened witha single.And before Karros blew open the game with a two-run double inthe eighth, Mlicki worked out of a jam in the seventh.With runners at first and second and two out, Perez came to theplate representing the tying run.
He lifted a fly ball to deepright.
Gary Sheffield retreated to the warning track to make thecatch.It didn't work in New York, where Mlicki was the fifth starterand bumped several times in the rotation because of rainouts.Here, he is more than a fill-in guy.
In three starts he hasmoved to the head of the line.ANAHEIM Angels manager Terry Collins says the Seattle Marinersstill scare him.
But one can only imagine how the Mariners maketheir own manager Lou Piniella feel.A combination of poor defense and relief pitching by theMariners enabled the Angels to rally from a four-run deficit andbeat Seattle 11-5 before 30,268 at Edison Field Thursday night,completing a three-game sweep of the defending AL West champions.It was the Angels' fourth win in a row, their seventh in eightgames and their 16th in 18.
They remained 1{ games ahead of theTexas Rangers in the AL West, with the Rangers in town to begin athree-game series against the Angels tonight.Mariners third baseman Russ Davis made two errors that led totwo unearned runs.
Two Mariners pitchers botched plays when theAngels were willing to give up outs with sacrifice bunts.
And evenGold Glove winner Ken Griffey Jr. misplayed a ball that helped theAngels score three runs in the seventh to take a 6-5 lead.The Angels put the game away with a five-run eighth inning.
Inall, the Angels had 15 hits, including three each by Gary DiSarcinaand Dave Hollins, and two apiece from Darin Erstad and CecilFielder.The Mariners bullpen came in with a reputation of blowing upunder pressure, and Thursday it lived up to it.
The Angels scoredseven of their runs off the Mariners bullpen in two innings.The key play of the game, though, took place in the seventhinning with the Mariners leading 5-3.
The Angels had runners onfirst and third with none out when Hollins hit a towering pop flyinto shallow center.
Griffey, who got no help from his middleinfielders, got a late jump and allowed the ball to fall in for agift single.
The Angels cut their deficit to 5-4 on that play, thenscored the tying and go-ahead runs on sacrifice flies by Tim Salmonand Fielder.Angels starter Jarrod Washburn (3-0) appeared on his way togetting his first major-league loss after falling behind early, buthe stuck around for 71/3 innings and got the win over Marinersreliever Paul Spoljaric (3-1).Mariners starter Jamie Moyer pitched well for six innings beforePiniella decided to go to his bullpen with a runner on and none outin the seventh.Going into Thursday's game, Washburn had done more than hold hisown since replacing the injured Jack McDowell in the startingrotation on June 2.
Washburn pitched into the seventh inning ineach of his first three starts and didn't allow more than threeruns in any of them.
The Angels won all three games.Washburn got the victory in two of them, missing a third winonly because of a fly ball lost in the twilight sky in the ninthinning on June 8 vs. Colorado that allowed the tying run to score.The Angels eventually won the game anyway.Washburn had been particularly good in the opening inningsduring his first three starts.
He didn't allow a run in innings 1-3in any of them, but the streak ended Thursday.
Griffey turned on a3-2 fastball from Washburn and put it beyond the short fence downthe line in right field for a 1-0 Mariners lead in the firstinning.Then in the third, the Mariners batted around and scored fourtimes.
Alex Rodriguez drove home two runs with a bases-loadedsingle, Griffey added an RBI single and Jay Buhner had a sacrificefly.
It could have been worse for the Angels if not for the catchcenter fielder Jim Edmonds made on Buhner's deep drive to thefence.
Edmonds lunged and snared the ball before crashing into thefence.The Angels scored in the first inning on Salmon's RBI single andagain in the third when DiSarcina singled and eventually scored ona groundout by Edmonds.But the Angels trailed 5-2 in the sixth inning when thirdbaseman Davis handed the Angels a run.
With Fielder (double) onsecond and two out, Phil Nevin hit a slow roller to Davis.
Davischarged the ball, but it rolled under his glove for a two-baseerror, allowing Fielder to score and make it 5-3.ST.
PETERSBURG, Fla.
It took only 98 years, but the Red Soxfinally played a game in Florida that counted, and won it.Derek Lowe would prefer not to count his wins by the year, butfor the moment, he has no choice.
The last time the Red Soxrighthander won a game, he was pitching for the Seattle Mariners,Tom Gordon was still a starter, and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays weresomething you found swimming underwater in the Gulf of Mexico, nottreading water under Teflon-coated fiberglass in Tropicana Field.The save went to Gordon, his 21st of the season and second intwo nights but first ever after he'd slept in his own bed in nearbyAvon Park.One Sox player whose ticket was punched early was second basemanMike Benjamin, who left the game after striking out to end the topof the fourth.
Manager Jimy Williams said Benjamin jammed his rightwrist sliding into second base on a double-play ball after his RBIsingle in the second.
X-rays were negative, according to a clubspokesman, who initially had reported that Benjamin did not leavethe game because of injury.Benjamin was not in the clubhouse after the game.
Williams saidhis valuable utilityman was day-to-day but sounded concerned thatthe injury could have more lasting consequences.
The list of downedRed Sox second basemen is already a long one: Tim Naehring, JeffFrye, and Mark Lemke.The Devil Rays had rallied to tie the score, 5-5, in the eighthwith a two-out, two-run rally started by a double by a still friskyWade Boggs, the Tampa native son who had three hits Thursday nightafter celebrating his 40th birthday Monday with a home run.While Lowe, who gave up home runs to Paul Sorrento and MikeKelly but had a 5-3 lead when he left after six innings, remainedon hold, O'Leary needed to wait just four days for the chance todeliver another game-winner off Jim Mecir, who was with the Red Soxlast season in name only.O'Leary, whose 10th-inning single off Mecir Sunday night inFenway Park made a loser of the Devil Rays, drove a ball into theleft-center-field gap off Mecir after walks to Mo Vaughn andDH-in-limbo Jim Leyritz, who had three hits and a walk in a rarestart against a righthander.
That provided the Sox with their thirdstraight win and seventh in eight games.Springer the pitcher, not the talk show terrorist is aknuckleballer who had success fooling O'Leary (ground out, doubleplay, whiff) but was less of a mystery to the rest of the Red Soxlineup, which knocked him around for five runs and nine hits beforehe left after Darren Bragg's single to start the seventh.Much of the damage was done by Leyritz and Vaughn, who doubledand scored in the second, singled home two runs in the fifth, anddrew a one-out walk off Esteban Yan that accounted for the winningrun.While he is openly campaigning for a trade, Leyritz made itclear again he just wants to play, period.
That and have a contractin hand for next season.TOKYO Japan's leading politicians are furiously thrashing outthe details of what the government hopes will emerge as a landmarkblueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts.And the blueprint is likely to be an important topic on Fridayduring talks when the deputy U.S. Treasury secretary, LawrenceSummers, meets with Japanese government officials and party leaderson Friday.After playing down the bad-loan problem for years, thegovernment now acknowledges that clearing away the loans may be thesingle most important factor in building confidence overseas and ingiving a lift to the economy.The problem loans, which have swelled to more than $600 billion more than the size of the entire Chinese economy have been adrag on the economy for years but now the government seemsincreasingly determined to clean up the mess over the next threeyears.Some foreign investors are wary of new promises from thegovernment because they have been let down so many times.
But otheranalysts and economists say that while enormous uncertaintiesremain, there are signs that the government may finally be ready toimplement the Total Plan, as it is being called here.The changes would take time but they could result in a sounderbanking sector, a more vibrant real estate market and a healthiereconomy overall.But Yoshitomi argues that up until now, only the politicianshave broken from the pack to tackle the bad debt while theregulators and the banks themselves have shown enormous reluctance.The Total Plan is being hammered out by 34 high-level LiberalDemocrat politicians and bureaucrats, who will convene a majorsession next Tuesday to review a draft.
The chairman is OkiharuYasuoka, a Liberal Democrat member of the lower house.The plan has been through many versions and is still changing,and about $17 billion has been set aside for it in the government's$123 billion stimulus package.
As described by governmentofficials, economists and bankers, the Total Plan focuses on thebad loans and on the properties Japanese banks are stuck withbecause they were the collateral for the loans.In the past banks have often set aside reserves for questionableloans but they generally have not sold those properties orliquidated the bad loans.
One result has been a huge drag on theproperty market and a continuing burden on the banks.The Total Plan calls for measures to encourage the banks to sellthe properties and remove both the loans and the collateral fromtheir books.
This may be a wrenching process, for the sale of somuch real estate could drive property prices lower, and theobligation to face up to the problems could force weak banks out ofbusiness.
This could be another blow to confidence in the Japaneseeconomy.But supporters say that the plan at least offers a way out ofthe mess, even if it is a risky and laborious passage.This would be the clearest break from the current system inwhich all banks, strong and weak, are pulled along together by thegovernment.The government already has a Resolution and Collection Bank,which can absorb failed institutions, but its activities are notcomprehensive enough to deal fully with bankrupt banks.Ryuji Konishi, an economic consultant and former bankingexecutive who favors the idea, compares the bridge bank to afishnet that catched only the fish too weak to swim away on theirown.Not surprisingly, the weak banks are extremely sensitive to thisproposal because they do not want to be, in effect, taken over bythe government.Earlier this year, the government also put together a $221billion bank bailout that would support depositors and help thebanks rebuild their capital.But the banks have drawn only 1.8 trillion yen.
Weak banks arereluctant to ask for money for fear that such an admission ofweakness would drive down their share prices.Some foreign investors would like to see the government put upeven more than 30 trillion yen, either through a bridge bank oranother rescue package.SAN FRANCISCO By 3:30 Thursday afternoon, when Casey Martinfinally teed off his dream, the fog and chill and mist all wererolling in from the Pacific Ocean.
Martin's tale had been warm, butnow it would be played out in the chill of reality and competition.The grandstand behind the first tee was packed.
Melinda and KingMartin, Casey's parents, searched high and low for seats, and whenthey finally were able to sit down, husband gripped the hand ofwife, father the hand of mother.After that first tee shot, King Martin removed himself from hiswife and family and friends and walked alone for much of the way atThe Olympic Club, needing the solitude to steel himself so he couldwatch his son swing through a dream.Martin wished that he did not have to ride in a cart as hestepped into it on that first hole.Martin parred the first hole and bogeyed the second when hisapproach shot spun off the green and he could not get up and down.The media contingent was sizable and the gallery also was large ashe finally settled down on the sixth hole for his first birdie.Another birdie two holes later, on the par-3 eighth, brought himback to level par, and the tale was growing warmer and warmer.So it was a no-brainer that Wisnall put his law business on holdWednesday afternoon, rushed down from Eugene to San Francisco, andwas at the ropes for every swing.Here is a list of CAMPAIGN stories that moved through 2:30a.m.
today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved Thursday, June18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved Thursday, June18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.
(EDS: Subs to change `what' to `that' in 7th graf.
No pickup.)
Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Thursday,June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved Thursday, June 18,through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of ENTERTAINMENT stories that moved Thursday,June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.
(EDS: Subs to correct reference to Ms. Anderson and spelling ofglamour in 20thHere is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved Thursday, June18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of FOOD and DINING stories that moved Thursday,June 18, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnists that moved yesterdaythrough 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.ANAHEIM, Calif.
The rock formation in left-center field atEdison Field provided a perfect setting for the Mariners'three-night(mare) visit to the Anaheim Angels' refurbished home.In a game Mariner starter Jamie Moyer pitched well enough to endthe free-falling defending division champions' most recent skid,two more errors by third baseman Russ Davis and two of the mosthorrific innings of the season turned into an 11-5 debacle before30,268 fans.Left fielder Glenallen Hill dropped a line drive in the firstinning that was ruled a hit, leading to a run that negated KenGriffey Jr.'s league-leading 27th home run in the top of theinning.Moyer shook that off, got out of the inning, and happily sat inthe dugout when Alex Rodriguez's bases-loaded single, Griffey's RBIhit and Jay Buhner's long sacrifice fly scored four runs in thethird inning.Angels third baseman Dave Hollins drilled a sharp grounder toDavis with one out and one on in the third inning, but instead ofcatching the ball and starting an inning-inning double play, Davisleaned over and the ball scooted through his legs.
That led to theAngels' second run.After Cecil Fielder doubled, Moyer retired Justin Baughman forthe second out and appeared to have retired Phil Nevin on a chopperto third.
Davis charged, put his glove down, pulled it back up andthe ball skittered into the outfield.When the Mariners went back on defense in the seventh inning,Jeff Huson was at third base and Davis was sitting in the dugoutwondering why this is happening to him again.After Gary DiSarcina led off the seventh with a single undersecond baseman Joey Cora's glove, a pitching change was made.
Andso was the game's complexion.Paul Spoljaric fed Darin Erstad a pitch that was hit back up themiddle, slightly to the pitcher's right.
Out of instinct, Spoljarictook a stab at the ball and knocked it toward Huson, who fielded itbarehanded but threw late to first.
No one covered third base,allowing DiSarcina to keep running, putting runners on first andthird with none out instead of nobody on with two outs.Cora, closest to the ball, pointed at it but did not give chase.Griffey charged in but arrived too late to make the catch.Anaheim loaded the bases when Spoljaric, fielding pinch-hitterCraig Shipley's bunt, threw late to third base.
Bobby Ayala, whosesinker is supposed to produce ground balls, entered with a 5-4 leadand promptly gave up long sacrifice flies that produced the tyingand go-ahead runs.The first-place Angels, playing with supreme confidence, treatedAyala rudely in the eighth inning, scoring five runs.
Besidessurrendering five hits in the inning, Ayala uncorked a wild throwto third base.The bad news: most of the ticket buyers probably have beenreading, watching and listening about a team that has lost fivestraight and 14 of its past 17 games to fall into the divisioncellar.ANAHEIM, Calif.
The rock formation in left-center field atEdison Field provided a perfect setting for the Mariners'three-night(mare) visit to the Anaheim Angels' refurbished home.In a game Mariner starter Jamie Moyer pitched well enough to endthe free-falling defending division champions' most recent skid,two more errors by third baseman Russ Davis and two of the mosthorrific innings of the season turned into an 11-5 debacle before30,268 fans.Left fielder Glenallen Hill dropped a line drive in the firstinning that was ruled a hit, leading to a run that negated KenGriffey Jr.'s league-leading 27th home run in the top of theinning.Moyer shook that off, got out of the inning, and happily sat inthe dugout when Alex Rodriguez's bases-loaded single, Griffey's RBIhit and Jay Buhner's long sacrifice fly scored four runs in thethird inning.Angels third baseman Dave Hollins drilled a sharp grounder toDavis with one out and one on in the third inning, but instead ofcatching the ball and starting an inning-inning double play, Davisleaned over and the ball scooted through his legs.
That led to theAngels' second run.After Cecil Fielder doubled, Moyer retired Justin Baughman forthe second out and appeared to have retired Phil Nevin on a chopperto third.
Davis charged, put his glove down, pulled it back up andthe ball skittered into the outfield.When the Mariners went back on defense in the seventh inning,Jeff Huson was at third base and Davis was sitting in the dugoutwondering why this is happening to him again.After Gary DiSarcina led off the seventh with a single undersecond baseman Joey Cora's glove, a pitching change was made.
Andso was the game's complexion.Paul Spoljaric fed Darin Erstad a pitch that was hit back up themiddle, slightly to the pitcher's right.
Out of instinct, Spoljarictook a stab at the ball and knocked it toward Huson, who fielded itbarehanded but threw late to first.
No one covered third base,allowing DiSarcina to keep running, putting runners on first andthird with none out instead of nobody on with two outs.Cora, closest to the ball, pointed at it but did not give chase.Griffey charged in but arrived too late to make the catch.Anaheim loaded the bases when Spoljaric, fielding pinch-hitterCraig Shipley's bunt, threw late to third base.
Bobby Ayala, whosesinker is supposed to produce ground balls, entered with a 5-4 leadand promptly gave up long sacrifice flies that produced the tyingand go-ahead runs.The first-place Angels, playing with supreme confidence, treatedAyala rudely in the eighth inning, scoring five runs.
Besidessurrendering five hits in the inning, Ayala uncorked a wild throwto third base.The bad news: most of the ticket buyers probably have beenreading, watching and listening about a team that has lost fivestraight and 14 of its past 17 games to fall into the divisioncellar.Washington's day-after obituaries opened with scathing soundbites from Democrats and promises to pummel Republicans on tobaccoin November.But Republicans are betting that while tobacco has replacedMonica Lewinsky as the hottest Beltway topic this summer, it's noburning issue in the hinterlands.
By the time November rollsaround, they calculate, voters will have forgotten the big tobaccobill, which even legislators didn't fully understand.Still just in case backdoor negotiations are continuing tosee if any kind of legislation might be revived.
House Speaker NewtGingrich suggested a much scaled-back version Thursday, but heoffered few details.Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is teaming with Orrin Hatch,R-Utah, to fashion a new bill that would keep the key regulatoryand tax penalties intended to discourage smoking, but without theextra baggage from both parties that ultimately brought down theoriginal bill sponsored by John McCain, R-Ariz.Republicans would like to immunize themselves from the tobaccoissue by passing a narrow bill to encourage education and otherefforts to reduce teenage smoking.
The House leadership's versionwould contain no tax increase.Without revenue, such a bill would allow Republicans to say theyare doing something to cut teen smoking but avoid the charge thatthey are raising taxes and expanding government with the big newfederal programs.The tobacco legislation has taken so many surprising turns dead one day and alive the next and has developed so manyshifting political crosscurrents that even seasoned lobbyists won'thazard a guess as to what will happen next.Conservative publisher Bill Kristol said Republicans willprobably go home for the July 4 recess to see how voters react.
Ifthere's a big yawn, as Kristol suspects, nothing more will happen.But Democrats clearly smell an issue.
Tobacco companies are nowthe Great Satan of American society, polls show.
And while pollsconsistently show that most people hold smokers, not tobaccocompanies, responsible for their smoking, sentiments reverse whenit comes to teenagers.Yet when asked what teens do that most concerns them,Fitzpatrick's polls show 39 percent say drugs; 17 percent saygangs, crime and random violence; 9 percent say reckless drivingand another 9 percent alcohol; 7 percent say sex; and 2 percentanswer smoking.SAN FRANCISCO After anguishing for weeks over how to cope withViagra mania, Kaiser Permanente, the nation's biggest HMO, willannounce plans Friday to exclude coverage of the popular blue pillfor male impotence.In addition, the HMO's new national policy will apply to otherprescription treatments for erectile dysfunction, includingsuppositories and pills not yet on the market.The decision was reached after an unprecedented national policyreview that had a team of physicians, ethicists and pharmacistsdelving into such issues as the medical necessity for erections andthe dangers of recreational use of pills like Viagra.A stunning 2 million prescriptions have been written for PfizerInc.
's Viagra since it was approved by the Food and DrugAdministration in April making Viagra the most successful newpharmaceutical on record.It's become a staple of late-night talk-show banter, so easy topurchase that one can order it over the Internet.
But it'sexpensive selling wholesale for $7 a pill, retail for about $9 or$10.In the last analysis, though, economic factors, as opposed tomedical issues, decided the question for Kaiser.
Even if users werelimited to 10 pills a month, the HMO estimated that the cost wouldexceed $100 million a year.By comparison, Kaiser dispensed only $59 million worth ofanti-virals last year, a category that includes all the proteaseinhibitors and other expensive drugs used to fight AIDS.Kaiser's decision overrules some regional decisionmakers who hadhoped the HMO would provide at least limited coverage to helpcertain patients.Several other HMOs have adopted rules limiting Viagra coverageto six pills or so each month.
About half of state-run Medicaidprograms provide Viagra benefits.
Standard Medicare coveragedoesn't include any self-administered drugs, although some HMOplans have been extending Viagra benefits that generally matchwhat's being offered through commercial plans.Viagra is the only FDA-approved pill affected by the new Kaiserpolicy.
But at least two other potential impotence treatments,considered to be a year or two away from the FDA-approval stage,also will be excluded, along with the so-called Muse suppository,Kaiser officials said.The policy will take full effect when standard HMO contractscome up for renewal, generally the first of the year.
Employers andother health-plan purchasers would have to buy an optionalsupplemental benefit plan if they want Kaiser to provide thecoverage anyway.Kaiser doctors may continue to write prescriptions for Viagra,and the drug will be available in the HMO's pharmacies.
But thestandard $5 co-payment will not cover the cost.In Northern California, where Kaiser provides HMO coverage toroughly 2.7 million people, or 1 of every 3 insured residents,Viagra has never made its way onto the list of reimbursedmedications.She said excluding Viagra is inconsistent with policies that payfor such things as seasonal allergy medications that also improvequality of life, even if they don't treat life-threateningconditions.Patients and advocates specializing in erectile dysfunctionroundly condemned Kaiser's decision, calling it a misguided slapagainst those who want erection problems treated as a diseaserather than a joke.Shapiro said taking the pill helped him regain not only fullsexual function but also helped him fight bouts of depression.Betsy Imholz, senior attorney for Consumers Union in SanFrancisco, noted that Kaiser will pay for office treatments andsurgery for erection problems.But some top medical experts took Kaiser's side, maintainingthat all HMO members should not have to bear the cost of the sexualactivities of a few men.SAN FRANCISCO Some leading brands of home water filtrationsystems, bought by tens of thousands of health-conscious consumers,actually increase the amount of lead in drinking water, accordingto a study released Thursday.The study, commissioned by a San Francisco environmental group,found that two common brands of water filters raised lead levels tothree times the federal standard and to more than 60 or 70 times amore stringent state level.Four other brands were found to have lead levels above the statestandard.
In all, the six brands represent as much as 50 percent ofthe $2.5 billion market for water filtration systems, the groupsaid.In response to the study, one manufacturer, Franke Inc., said itwas withdrawing one of its product lines from the market andoffered to refund consumers the price of any recent purchases.Franke said it will conduct its own test on the products andwork with the Center for Environmental Health in San Francisco,which commissioned the study, to ensure its products meet publichealth requirements.Michael Green, executive director of the group, welcomed themove and said his group's goal is to use the state's anti-toxicslaw, Proposition 65, to force other manufacturers to do the same.The study was conducted for Green's organization by theEnvironmental Quality Institute at the University of North Carolinaat Asheville, which has done more than 50 studies of lead indrinking water.Lead is the leading environmental threat to children's health.Even at low levels, lead has been shown to impair fetaldevelopment, cause learning disabilities in children and lead tomiscarriages in pregnant women.At a news conference Thursday, Green said the group had filed60-day notices with the state pointing out that four of thecompanies are in violation of Proposition 65, the state'santi-toxics law.He said the group had filed a lawsuit against a fifth company,Omni Corp. And a sixth company, Ametek Inc., the leading maker ofhome filter systems, has already agreed to remove lead from itsproduct by November as part of a legal settlement.In all, the study looked at 16 home water filtration systemsthat have separate faucets mounted on a sink and usually havefilters mounted below the sink.
The systems range in cost from $100to $300.Over a three-week period, the study tested daily lead levels inwater that was left standing in the faucets.
Many of the systemshave brass faucets, which contain lead that leaches into water leftin the faucet while it is not being used.In some cases, the researchers found, the filtering system canincrease the corrosiveness of the water and increase its ability toleach out lead.Based on consumption of eight glasses of water a day, the studyshowed that a filter made by Omni contained 35.5 parts lead perbillion, and one made by Franke contained 30.1 parts lead perbillion both well above the federal standard of 11 parts perbillion.Four other products, made by Amway, Equinox International Corp.,QMP Inc. and Waterboss International, were below the federal levelbut above the stricter Proposition 65 level of 0.5 parts perbillion.One independent authority who reviewed the study called itsound.
Donald Smith, a lead specialist at the University ofCalifornia at Santa Cruz, said that, if anything, the studyunderestimated the exposure levels.The Center for Environmental Health recommended that consumersrun water for 10 seconds before filling a glass to remove waterwith the highest lead levels.Franke and other manufacturers said they had not seen the studyand declined to comment directly on its results.But many noted that their products had been certified as safe bya national certification group and by the California Department ofHealth Services, both of which use the less restrictive federalstandard.Industry officials said the study underscored the problem ofcomplying with conflicting standards in California.The head of the state's certification program said manufacturershave long been warned that certification would not protect themfrom Proposition 65 lawsuits.
And he said the study might force are-evaluation of the federal standard.The Proposition 65 suits against makers of water filtrationsystems stem from a similar campaign by environmental groupsagainst the makers of kitchen faucets.Using the California law, the groups have forced manufacturers,at a cost of tens of millions of dollars, to virtually eliminatethe lead that can leach from taps into drinking water.Eric Somers, an attorney for the Center for EnvironmentalHealth, said that water filtration systems simply fell through thecracks when environmental groups were pursuing faucetmanufacturers.ATLANTA For the fifth June in a row, in company of the sailinghalf of our family, we are headed for a week's sail and crab-caketour of the Chesapeake Bay.
En route to Baltimore we enjoy atraditional Delta breakfast -- two small cookies and coffee.After a night in Annapolis, we enjoy breakfast at Chick andRuth's, where the Pledge of Allegiance tradition still holds, alongwith New York bagels, fat cheese omelets, and Philadelphiascrapple.
At 8:30 in the morning everyone in Chick and Ruth's iscommanded to stop eating, stand up, place right hand over heart,and recite the Pledge.
They've been doing that for nearly a halfcentury, and people spend the night in Annapolis so they canparticipate.
With the Naval Academy just across the way and historyall around, you feel a tingle of patriotism in Chick and Ruth's.The weather is cool and breezy, a sailor's delight.
In goodweather, sailing is no more complicated than flying a kite andoperating a hay baler at the same time.
Our boat is 35 feet longwith a 40-foot mast.
Two large pieces of cloth are attached to themast.
Raised up and down, set this way or that, they either pull,or push, the boat along.
I haven't figured out which.
This is theway Columbus discovered America.A sailboat has about two dozen ropes.
You have to know theropes, as the saying goes.
Sailing a boat is a pleasurableexperience as long as the weather is good and you don't get rundown by a freighter hauling televisions from Japan.
When theweather turns, there is some question about why people at the endof the 20th century are spending their vacation traveling likeChristopher Columbus when perfectly good diesel engines are beingmanufactured, even in Detroit.We stroll past Camden Yards and think about hanging around tosee the Braves but decide to sail on and catch the Braves back inAtlanta.
Wise decision.
Braves lose.After a night in Rock Hill on the Eastern Shore, we begin anall-day sail down the bay to Oxford.
Senior members of the crew goashore for a night at the Robert Morris Inn, built sometime before1710.
James Michener, who stayed there when he was researching hisChesapeake book, said the Robert Morris serves the best crab cakeson the bay.
We find no reason to dispute the famous writer.Leaving Oxford, it is D-Day, the Sixth of June, anniversary ofthe stormy allied channel crossing to the Normandy beaches, and toquote Lewis Grizzard, I'm not feeling so good myself.
We arebobbing around in the Choptank River, which is not at all a riverlike the Flint or Chattahoochee.
It's more the size of the IndianOcean, and 25-knot winds are kicking up 4- and 5-foot waves,according to small craft warnings on the weather radio.
We are in avery small craft.A sailboat in rough weather doesn't ride on an even keel.
Oneside is up in the air, the other deep into the water.
This causesthe helmsman to sit at an approximately 45-degree angle.
Thecompany that comes up with Velcro seats in helmsmen's breeches willmake a fortune.Thanks to expert seamanship by the captain, a.k.a.
our downtownson, we arrive safely in St. Michael's, famous for gourmet food andan antique boat museum.
Winds abate, and we welcome a good night'ssleep after a hazardous day at sea.Sailboat sleeping is complicated.
If you're planning a sailingtrip and have a choice of roommates, I suggest a midget or anacrobat.
Our bedroom in the bow is pie-shaped.
Our feet cometogether while our bodies sprout out in opposite directions.
To getinto bed, you wiggle in, sort of like slipping your hand into aglove.The fifth summer on the Chesapeake came to an end with a sailback into Annapolis.
We didn't run aground, didn't get hit by afreighter hauling televisions from Japan, didn't get lost in thefog.
Nobody fell overboard and we weren't set adrift by an anchorcoming loose in the night.
We've become such experienced sailorsthat once terrifying vacations are ho-hum.
Next year we may trysomething different, like an ox-cart trip across the Rockies.WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I wassomebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in themirror, I lean my head just so.
Then from far-off points I comb themorning strands in a left-to-right swipe.
It is their commute towork.I realized the futility of this exercise the morning afterMichael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging hisneck like superfluous follicles.I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, theepitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing onhis head but Air.And look at heads around the league, and look at the leaguesbelow, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,which has less and less suit every year.And we're not just talking about black guys.
During the playoffsthe Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coachLarry Byrd look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits wouldhave caused it to lose its skin.
But if that guy can parade lobarnudity with pride, so can the rest of us.
The fact is, we know wecan because Mike does.Yes, this is about Michael Jordan.
Just ask NBC.
He's next toGod and bigger than the Beatles.As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economichardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off thelittle man.
In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber intothe income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.That's why I'm the one next to make a mint.
I've applied for apatent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to loseit.
Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,Nogaine, is a winner.The baldness-causing agent?
That's secret, of course.
Generally,I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in theblood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team.
Nowyou can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without hisblood pressure.In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not hisjump shot.
Hey, you take what you can get.We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impedimentto excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, allthose creams and combs.
With Nogaine, fuss no more.The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by theforces of baldness over those of baldness remedies.
Utah's KarlMalone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine.
Loser.No I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only bethe first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on my modernsocial developments.That's why, with women already starting to recoil fromscientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busyworking on a pill to restore male impotence.Cox News Service columnist Joe Murray is on vacation this week.His column will resume the week of June 22.The Hearst News Service will file the following stories forSaturday.
If you have questions, call Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.WATER-FILTERS (San Francisco) Home water filters intended toremove chemicals and other impurities may be leaching lead intoglasses of water.
A sampling of 16 under-the-sink filters foundthat nine contained brass parts that leached lead at levels abovethose considered safe under California's tough anti-toxics law.
ByJANE KAY.BATTERED-GAYS (San Francisco) San Francisco would be the firstcity in the nation to fund shelter beds for gay men who arebattered by their partners, if Supervisor Mark Leno gets his way.Although the city has helped three women's shelters in town, therehas never been a safe place for gay men fleeing domestic violence.By CAROL NESS.CHEVRON-POLLUTE (San Francisco) Chevron's refinery inRichmond, Calif., tops the nation's list of polluters with morethan 944 million pounds of toxic waste produced in 1996, accordingto the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
By JANE KAY.BUSH-2000 (Washington) A crush of Republican heavyweightshelped Texas Gov.
George W. Bush raise about $1 million here forhis re-election bid.
The big turnout fueled speculation he will runfor president in 2000, but he says he still has not made up hismind.
By GARY MARTININTERNET-MERGERS (San Francisco) Merger mania and businessunions are starting to sweep the Internet, as big corporationspounce on smaller on-line firms that offer gateways to a new mediumand millions of consumers.
By EDWARD IWATA.COMPUTER-COLUMN (Undated) Pentium II notebook computers arehot, literally.
We takes a look at a couple of power machines thatwill singe your lap if you're not careful.
By DWIGHT SILVERMAN.COMPUTER-HELPLINE (Undated) How to partion your hard drive torecover wasted space and turn on your USB ports.
By DWIGHTSILVERMAN.LYNCH-COLUMN (Albany, N.Y.) One of the darkest fears I hearexpressed by the 50 or so people who call me every day is that thepoor are ripping them off.
I can understand resentment againstable-bodied adults who are on the dole.
Especially when thoseable-bodied adults happen to be collecting aid while they're behindbars.
By DAN LYNCH.Since then, the list has been the source of much discussion andconsternation.
What made it is moot.
It's what didn't that irks usmost.That's the problem with a list like this: Everyone who's evergone to the movies has a really loud opinion.
The AFI determinedits winners from a tally of 1,500 voters (including filmmakers,critics, historians and assorted bigwigs), who chose their top 100choices from a ballot of 400 domestic feature films.Orson Welles' masterwork is a movie everyone can agree on.
It'sgroundbreaking cinema, artful, poetic and thrillingly smart.
No oneparticipating in the AFI vote would have dared leave it off theirlist; it's too important, already too widely regarded as thegreatest movie ever made.Naming the best 100 movies is a pointless task, because a goodfilm spurs intense emotional response.
It inspires passion, anger,terror, anxiety, laughter, grief or delight.
Despite all the talkof lighting and camera angles and well-crafted scripts, the act ofmoviegoing is a profoundly subjective experience.
Movies are oursecret worlds; when we enter, we give ourselves up to fantasy.
Thefilms that hold us firmly are those that win our hearts.For starters, she's a klutz.
She hates makeup, speaks out ofturn, blows her first meeting with a husky matchmaker (she sets herrump on fire) and is prone to wildly funny slapstick pratfalls.Mulan, renamed Ping, pals around with army buddies Yao (HarveyFierstein) and Ling (Gedde Watanabe) and helps pursue the advancingHuns.
Along the way there are glorious vistas (inspired by DavidLean) and breathtaking windows into ancient Chinese culture: ascene in which Hun soldiers ring the lip of a snowy crest isarresting and unforgettable.Yet it's a weird gumbo, this mix of adult subject matter,radiant artistry, saccharine tunes and a buoyant, child-friendlyjokiness.
It doesn't quite gel as though Disney yearned to be agrown-up film but couldn't bear to abandon its family-movieformula or the Happy Meal revenues it promises.How cute, I thought to myself.
Nothing like hot, summer days andenterprising little kids.
It's a milestone of almost every child'slife.I pulled up closer to the stand and, sure enough, there was myson and his friend, manfully minding shop over the card table thatheld his mom's best Tupperware pitcher and an ice chest.It was a good day's work.
With the heat index at 108 degrees,the two budding businessmen had a sure thing.I wonder, why is $2.75 earned by standing in the suffocatingheat such a bonanza compared to the $5 a week we hand him for doinghis chores?
He hardly takes note of those earnings, even though hearguably has to work harder for them.
No, the thrill comes fromplanning, making and selling the product himself.It's no different for adults.
This sense of ownership be it aprogram at church, a product on the shelf or a marketing plan translates into the difference between participating in somethingand caring deeply about it.It reminds me of the old joke about the ham-and-egg breakfast.In producing it, the joke goes, the chicken is involved, but thepig is committed.I'm not sure we want our commitment to go that far, but it doesmake a point.
For most of us to achieve any level of sacrificialcommitment, we must feel our input is valuable and essential.A few years ago, businesses were all abuzz about TQM, TotalQuality Management.
It's pretty much the same philosophy describedabove, practiced in the workplace.
Small-group meetings are heldregularly among employees, their ideas and suggestions are soughtand implemented as much as possible.
The message is loud and clear:You are important to this organization, you make a difference, wevalue you, we're listening to you.TQP should become the buzzword for all of us rearing children Total Quality Parenting.
We should strive to make each familymember feel important, feel valued, know that his or her presencemakes a difference.
Most important of all, perhaps, it would createopportunities to listen, not lecture.It's a pretty easy trap to parent like an autocrat.
After all,that's what many of our parents did, right?I have a hunch many of us at times treat our co-workers andfriends with more courtesy and respect than we do our own familymembers.Our son helped his friend close down shop for the day, hopped inthe car and proudly showed me his take-home pay.
When you're theyoungest of three sons, it's easy for your accomplishments to getoverlooked.
After all, two others already have been there and donethat.I've seen a lot of lemonade stands in my life, but until today Ihadn't seen this one the one that my son and his friend made.
Icouldn't have been prouder of him, and I told him so.Roasting food over fire is the oldest form of cooking in theworld; picture the caveman licking his fingers after a satisfyingcookout.Nowadays, it's as popular as ever, especially in the UnitedStates, where more than 75 percent of households own a grill.That's according to figures from the Barbecue Institute of America,an industry group in Chicago.Men (and women) all over the world seem to get a thrill out oftheir grills.
Here's a little heated history to fire you up for aFather's Day grill session:Barbecuing in the U.S. has many roots.
Ponce de Leon, on hiscruise through the Caribbean, found Haitians cooking over fire.
Hebrought their techniques to America when he landed in the 1500s, inwhat has become Florida, according to the institute.
Other parts ofAmerica doubtless picked up their outdoor cooking tips from Indiantribes, who used foods indigenous to their regions.Pigs and chickens commonly landed on the spit, according toearly English writers documenting New World cuisines.
It wasn'tlong before the Spanish and English were firing up the pits andcooking with rotisseries, but using the deer, cattle and sheep oftheir fields in place of pigs or chickens.Other parts of the world, meanwhile, picked up different methodsof fire-cooking from neighbors in the Middle East, Asia and Africa,where Egyptians, Mongolians and desert nomads routinely cooked on aspit over coals.
The meats varied according to culture andavailability lamb in Mongolia, chicken and pork in southernChina, beef and lamb around Egypt.In parts of China and Southeast Asia today, cooking outdoors ispart of the culture, and communal cooking pits made of stone stillmark a village common.
The people eat the same foods theirancestors cooked over coals typically, beef, pork and chicken.
Insouthern India, Thailand and Vietnam, with miles of oceansurrounding them, fish is skewered and charcoal-braised.Typical of those ovens is the Indian tandoori, a wood-burningoven that gives everything from chicken to some breads adistinctive smoky flavor, plus a red tinge that comes from smokepenetration.
Spicy marinades help, too: Curry mixtures and rubs arepopular in this country as a pre-grill seasoning.The Scandinavians and Russians smoke their indigenous fishes, asdo native Inuits and Indians along the Pacific Northwest.
There,planked salmon, deriving its flavor from both the wood of the plankit's cooked on and the smoke, is a delicacy.In Japan, the famous cash crop bonito, typically used for fishstock, is available fresh once a year.
At that time, the fish arefilleted and grilled quickly to sear the skin crisp, but keep theflesh moist.
It is then chilled and served with a marinade of soy,ginger, honey and vinegar, according to Elizabeth Andoh, a notedJapanese cookbook author.From Greece and Spain come shish kebabs skewered meat grilledover fire, but in small chunks.
Kebab history is loosely traced tothe Medieval days of sword-toting warriors who frequently ate inthe field during their battles.
A deer, pheasant or rabbit wascaught, divided among the camp, and roasted in pieces skewered ontheir swords over the campfire.Today's grill warriors prefer lamb, brushed with lemon juice andseasoned with oregano in Greece; and beef and pork (andoccasionally lamb) in Spain and Portugal.The Portuguese, however, prefer cooking over a spit, roastingthe meat slowly over the coals.
Home cooks are equipped withrotisseries, and specialty restaurants called churrasqueira offerthe roasts, according to Portuguese cookbook author Carla Azevedo.A Portuguese delicacy, fresh sardines, get the grill treatmentafter being sprinkled with coarse salt.
They're served as a tapas,with a rosemary, garlic and lemon oil dip.The big steak eaters are, naturally, citizens of countries thatraise beef as a primary meat source.
The U.S., Argentina, Braziland Australia are beef grillers.
Argentina takes specific pride inits cattle, and huge stone grills for barbecuing are common on thegaucho ranches.And as for Americans?
The Barbecue Institute says steak, ofcourse, but burgers, ribs and chicken are tops with pops (and moms)doing the grill thing.Here are recipes to share with your dad for a Father's Daycookout.
Many of the sauces, marinades and techniques areinterchangeable; experiment to your liking.
Indonesian satayCut meat into 1-inch cubes.
In a bowl, combine garlic, soy, oil,cumin, and coriander.
Add meat and stir to coat; cover andrefrigerate for 2 hours or overnight.
Stir occasionally.Lift meat from marinade and drain briefly (discard marinade).Thread 4 or 5 pieces of meat on each skewer.
Arrange skewers on alightly greased grill 2 to 4 inches above a solid bed of hot coals.Cook, turning often, until well browned and done to your liking.Cut to test (8 to 10 minutes for medium-rare.
)Combine water, peanut butter and garlic, minced, in a 2-quartsaucepan.
Cook over medium-low heat until mixture boils andthickens.
Remove from heat; stir in remaining ingredients.
Servehot.Choose a slender filet mignon or piece of London broil that's nothicker than 1 1/4 inches.
Make several shallow slits in all thesurfaces of the meat and insert slivers of garlic into them.
Brushthe meat with a thin layer of oil, then salt and pepper both sides.Sear meat over hot coals.
Turn it once after 5 minutes or whenwell browned.
Sear other side; if filet is rounded, you may need toturn it 1/4-turn each time.
The meat should be rare, though notraw, inside.Remove meat from the grill and plunge it into ice water.
Gentlylift the meat out of the water, leaving any fat behind.
Pat meatdry on several layers of paper toweling.In a glass or ceramic container large enough to accommodatemeat, combine marinade ingredients.
Stir well to distribute.
Letmeat sit in marinade, covered, in refrigerator overnight.
Ifmarinade doesn't completely cover steak, turn meat several times toensure even flavoring.Note: The ingredients for this dish can be found in any marketthat carries Middle Eastern products.
The asafoetida also may becalled hing.In a bowl to hold all chops, marinate the lamb chops in thepaste for 1 hour.Over a medium charcoal grill, grill the chops for 5 minutes oneach side.
Serve warm with sliced cucumbers, tomatoes andscallions.
Naan bread is often served with this dish as well.Note: The ingredients for this dish can be found in any marketthat carries Middle Eastern products.
The asafoetida also may becalled hing.Clean whole fish well, including head and tail.
Skewer fish frommouth to tail with metal or bamboo rod.
(Bamboo is traditional.
)At least 1 hour and up to 8 hours before you grill, prepare thedry rub, combining all rub ingredients.
Coat chicken breasts evenlywith the rub, place in a plastic bag, and refrigerate.Just before grilling, spritz the chicken with vegetable oil.Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes per side,until opaque, but still juicy.At least 2 1/2 hours before grilling (or overnight), mix mojoingredients in a small bowl.
Place the tenderloins in a plastic bagand about 2/3 of the mojo over them.
Cover and refrigerate the porkand the remaining mojo.Remove pork from refrigerator; drain and blot.
Let pork sit,covered, at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes.Heat grill for a two-level fire capable of cooking first on highheat (1 to 2 seconds with hand-held-over-flame test) and then onmedium heat (4 to 5 seconds with hand test).Transfer tenderloins to the grill, arranging them so that thickend is over hottest part of fire.
Grill, uncovered on high heat,for 3 minutes, rolling pork on all sides.
Move the pork to mediumheat, continue turning and complete grilling as indicated:Thin tenderloins (about 1 1/2 inches in diameter) need anadditional 10 to 12 minutes on medium and thick ones (about 2 1/2inches in diameter) require up to 25 minutes.
The meat is done whenthe internal temperature reaches 155 degrees to 160 degrees.WACO, Texas When blond-haired, blue-eyed Grand Dragon MichaelLowe, backed by several dozen of his Texas Knights of the Ku KluxKlan followers, shows up in the strife-torn East Texas community ofJasper with a message of peace and harmony, don't believe it.It would be best if no one showed up at the June 27 KKK rally onJasper's courthouse steps because Grand Dragon Lowe is the Klan'sLowe is a successful recruiter for the Klan because he keeps thehoods and sheets in the closet and preaches a message that couldsubstitute for the political platform of many current politicians.Like the rest of America, Lowe's attention must have riveted onthe small timber community of Jasper following reports that threewhite men chained the feet of Jasper native James Byrd Jr. to thetrailer hitch of a beat-up old pickup and dragged the 49-year-oldAfrican-American down country roads until his body was torn topieces.The three white ex-cons arrested for the murder were reported tohave links to racist prison gangs.
Add racial hatred as theapparent motive for the ghastly crime and Lowe must have felt thethrill of a once-in-a lifetime opportunity.When Lowe isn't busy putting a mainstream happy face on theKlan, he works as a carpenter in the Waco area.
He grew up andstill lives in nearby Robinson where high school classmatesremember him as a misfit who had a well-developed hatred for blacksat an early age.A chilling peek into Lowe's young psyche that reverberates withthe Jasper murder was reported in an Aug. 14, 1994, Tribune-Heraldarticle about Lowe by staff writer Teresa Talerico.Lowe erupted when a black student was nominated as classfavorite, according to a classmate who graduated with Lowe in 1968.Lowe has claimed that he joined a Klan faction, United Klans ofAmerica, at 16.
After high school, Lowe was convicted twice forburglaryIn 1973, Lowe also received 10 years probation for possession ofan explosive device involving a series of bombings in Houston of aHe doesn't hide from public view.
He seeks publicity.
Whenopportunities arise, he calls a rally so he can tell everyone thatthe Klan does not hate or advocate violence.Lowe talks about white civil rights.
He talks about mainstreamvalues.
He talks about family farms to farmers.
He talks aboutproblems with immigrants.
He talks about problems with the welfaresystem.
He talks about the right to choose.Americans aren't the only ones who get fired up about grilling.Here's a look at barbecuing in different countries.Portugal, Spain and France: Rotisserie-cooked roasts, primarilybeef and lamb, with basting sauces flavored with wine, garlic andfresh herbs.ATLANTA At the request of Alabama's governor and congressionaldelegation, a White House committee has backed off fromrecommending President Clinton designate the Chattahoochee as anAmerican Heritage River.The move by Alabama angered Georgia officials, and mightescalate an already bitter water war between the states.
Georgiaofficials, including Gov.
Zell Miller, pushed for the designation,which would pave the way for federal funds and programs to helpclean up, protect and maintain the environmental integrity of theChattahoochee.Clinton is expected to name 10 waterways this month as AmericanHeritage Rivers under a program he created last year to bringnational attention to the importance of the nation's rivers.
The 10will be the first to be designated American Heritage Rivers.In a letter to the White House's Council on EnvironmentalQuality, Alabama Gov.
Fob James and members of the state'scongressional delegation claimed that giving the Chattahoochee thatdesignation could upset negotiations among Alabama, Florida andGeorgia to settle an interstate water war.She said the Chattahoochee appeared headed for inclusion on thelist of 10 waterways the council will recommend to Clinton.
Morethan 125 communities around the country nominated rivers for theprogram.
But at a meeting Tuesday in St. Louis, council officialstold Champion that the Chattahoochee would not be recommended.Champion said more than 3,500 residents and elected officials inGeorgia and Alabama, and 21 cities and counties had signed letterssupporting the Chattahoochee's designation.WEST PALM BEACH Residents of one of the city's poorestneighborhoods were blessed with thousands of sports and outdoorshoes recently after looters raided a tractor-trailer filled with 5tons of name brands parked a block off Tamarind Avenue.An anonymous caller later told police that drug dealers brokeinto the 18-wheeler first, followed by others who wanted new men'sshoes by Rockport, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Timberland and Nautica.Two cars collided on 13th Street trying to reach the scene,Woods said.
About 40 people were inside the trailer when policearrived.Police retrieved about one-third of the shoes nearly 1,700pairs which were strewn on the street or still in the trailerwhen they arrived.
Some of the looters had left old shoes wherethey'd sat down to try on their new shoes, Woods said.John Fayard, the wayward trucker's boss in Gulfport, Miss.,declined comment Thursday, except to say his insurance will pay forthe shoes.Only Edward Robinson, the loss prevention director at theMississippi salvage yard where the shoes were to be delivered forreshipment, called the police giveaway an outrage.There is probably no more ubiquitous woodworking hand tool thanthe Blue Chip chisels made by the British firm of Marples.
I've gota set, you've probably got a set.
They're everywhere.They're cheap and they're available.
Thus it was interesting tosee this query, and the response it brought, on the Internet:The overwhelming consensus was that the fellow should go aheadand get them.
Actually, $49.95 is pretty high for a set of BlueChips, but I gather this one comes boxed.
I'd forgo the box and buythem cheaper.
I can't remember what I paid for mine, but it wascloser to half that price.
Of course, that was a long time ago.Some responders even suggested that anybody who would turn uphis nose at Blue Chip chisels is nothing but a snob.I would say get the Blue Chips for a couple of reasons: First,this gentleman is obviously a beginner and they're most adequatefor starters.
Second, I know of no other moderately priced setwhich includes the invaluable 1/8-inch chisel.
And finally, I'd assoon have the Marples as the Sorby.
I don't know how muchdifference in price there is between the sets, but I doubt ifthere's much difference in quality.But I wouldn't suggest that anyone who wants a better set is asnob.
He's simply moved to another level of the craft.I recall some years back Fine Woodworking did one of its rare(for the time) reviews of tools, and in this case analyzed thesteel in various brands of chisels.
The Blue Chips came in last bya long way.
They'll take a fine edge, but they won't necessarilyhold it very long.There are, generally speaking, no finer chisels than those madein Japan, although one needs to be careful to buy from a reputabledealer who will sell a set made for export.
Japanese chisels aremade of laminated steel; a thin layer of hard steel on the back forthe edge, with a thicker layer of milder steel to back it up.In Japan, most woodworkers use soft woods, and thus can useextremely hard steel.
But in this country, where furniture makingnearly always involves hardwoods, such an edge will tend to chipvery easily.Japanese chisels range from moderately priced to incrediblyexpensive.
The more expensive ones tend to be works of art ratherthan practical tools.
A $10 chisel may not hold an edge as long asI'd like, but a $100 one makes me nervous.The Record plane is in the same category as the Marples chisels-- it's hard to find anything else, and even harder to findanything better.
The soles of Record planes are never, in myexperience, flat or square to the sides, and the irons are ofindifferent quality.
If you're willing to put in a considerabledegree of scutwork, you can deal with this.Basically, you'll have to flatten the soles by hand, which meansrubbing them on wet silicon carbide powder or paper on anabsolutely flat surface, usually heavy glass.
The soles don't haveto be totally flat, but the leading edge, the surfaces just foreand aft of the iron, and the tail end should all be on exactly thesame plane.
The rest of the surface can be a little lower.Replacing the iron only takes money.
The Japanese make excellentirons to fit the Record planes, and so does the small Americanmaker Hock.
You can also improve them considerably by getting allthe slop out of the adjustment screw, but you'll need a betterexpert than myself to explain that.Incidentally, the Marples chisels will need similar work.
Theback (edge side) of the chisel is just like the sole of a plane; ithas to be flat and square to the sides.
The Marples tools won't be.Once again, silicon carbide powder and water on a piece of heavy,flat glass are called for.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.SALAMANDER-POEM AUSTIN U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks,mixing rhyme and reason, kept the Barton Springs Pool open bydenying attempts to stop the city from cleaning the spring-fed poolthat is habitat to an endangered salamander and a cool respite forCentral Texans.
In a 16-line poem and a 20-page opinion, the judgetook literary and legal swings at the Endangered Species Act,ruling that the city's cleaning does not harm the 3-inchsalamander, which lives only in the local springs.
(Copelin, AustinAmerican-Statesman) MOVED.NEWS-QUESTIONS The architect of Coors Field, Denver; SelectiveService registration; baseball players who hit four home runs in agame; hurricane names; and more.
Gleaned from the week's news Q A.
(Bessonette, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.HELLER-COOKBOOK The lazy days of summer arrive officially nextweek, so we went looking for cookbooks that are a good read.
Wewanted more than just a collection of recipes.
(Heller, DaytonDaily News) MOVED.BEER-MSKUBE Along with the darker Altbiers of nearbyDusseldorf and the spritzy white beers of Berlin, Kolsch is theleast familiar of German styles in the United States.
It's adifferent kind of ale (an English word Germans never use), light asa sister's kiss, pale as summer corn, served in a cylindrical7-ounce glass with no ornamentation.
(Skube, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.FOOD-RECIPESWAP Frances Bowie recently e-mailed Recipe Swaplooking for the Mix-Easy Two Egg Cake recipe from the cookbook andmanual that came with her Dormeyer mixer in 1948.
Luckily, therewere a handful of pack rats out there who pulled out their Dormeyermixer manuals from around the same time and found the recipe.
Andreaders Dorothy Barr and Ruth Eunice, both of Atlanta, reportedtheir mixers were still working.
(Recipe follows.)
(Walker, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.
EMBARGOED FOR 6/18.GETAWAY-TUSCUMBIA Country star Ronnie Milsap will headline theentertainment at the 20th annual Helen Keller Festival, June 25-28in the quaint Tennessee River town of Tuscumbia, Ala. Milsap, whowas invited because his career has soared despite his blindness,will give a free concert at 8 p.m. June 27 in Spring Park, site ofthe festival's arts and crafts fair and other musical events.
(Patureau, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/18.
EMBARGOED FOR6/18.YBORFLA TAMPA I strolled and shopped by day and crawled barto bar at night.
This is the way to see Tampa's Ybor City.
YborCity draws huge weekend crowds for its nightlife.
Nightclubs areshoulder-to-shoulder along the main street, Seventh Avenue, likecheapskates at an open bar.
That wasn't the case about 20 years agowhen Ybor was a crumbling, neglected, dangerous-at-nightneighborhood.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.YBORFLA-WALKINGTOUR TAMPA Carmen Morales, who grew up inYbor City, can bring the past back with anecdotes that make a1-mile walking tour a lively excursion.
A volunteer guide, she'lltell you about her history, which is Ybor's history, too.
(Lomartire, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDE SEASIDE, Fla.
This small town built next to the Gulfof Mexico gives contradictory first impressions.
You see aVictorian village with turn-of-the-century turrets, verandas andpicket fences.
But on closer inspection it looks like a movie settoo perfect to be a real town.
In fact, Seaside, which was thelocation for the new movie The Truman Show starring Jim Carrey, isnot historic, unless 17 years the first house was built in 1981 counts as vintage.
(Blackerby, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SEASIDEFLA-ARCHITECTURE SEASIDE, Fla.
So what do people doin this Architectural Digest-perfect town?
One would think the Gulfof Mexico would be the main attraction.
No, indeed.
Houses are whatdraw sightseers, many of whom are architects and urban planners,who come here to admire and photograph the real estate.
(Blackerby,Palm Beach Post) MOVED.SUWANNEE-HOUSEBOAT SUWANNEE, Fla.
I'm on the Suwannee.
Thehouseboat is real and we're cruising lazily up the riverimmortalized in Stephen Foster's song Old Folks at Home, a perfectplace to remember old daydreams.
Our cruise begins at Miller'sMarina in the town of Suwannee, where the river empties into thegulf on Florida's West Coast.
The lower area of the river is anational wildlife refuge.
(Zent, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet,tuisite to watch.
Her Kate become not only the agent but the victimof her own scheming.
Grade: A - (Murray, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.MODERNDESIGNS HIGH POINT, N.C. Modern designs, with clean,simple lines, lighter woods and streamlined shapes, are headed tofurniture showrooms this fall.
Among the designers leading the wayis Larry Laslo, one of the country's top creators of contemporaryfurnishings, who introduced The Moderne Collection aFrench-influenced Deco/Cubist/Modernist line for Bexley HeathLtd.
at the spring High Point show.
(Flanders, AtlantaJournal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.RELIGION-BLACKARTS Celebrating its 10th anniversary this year,the National Black Arts Festival (July 10-19) has become one of theforemost events of its kind.
An event this large has substantialvolunteer needs, from ushers and office help to people to greetartists at the airport and help them around Atlanta.
(Henry,Atlanta Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.These columns for release the weekend of Saturday, June 20,1998, are moving today to clients of the New York Times NewsService.All columns have moved, in the commentary (k) category.
If youhave questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the Cox NewsService, at 404-526-5456.YOUNG-COLUMN WACO, Texas I just realized I should stoppretending I was somebody else and start being like Mike, which isbald.
I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in themirror, I lean my head just so.
Then from far-off points I comb themorning strands in a left-to-right swipe.
It is their commute towork.
(Young, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.NETHAWAY-COLUMN Klan Grand Dragon Michael Lowe talks aboutwhite civil rights.
He talks about mainstream values.
He talksabout family farms to farmers.
He talks about problems withimmigrants.
He talks about problems with the welfare system.
Hetalks about the right to choose.
But don't believe it.
(Nethaway,Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.KABAT-COLUMN A sense of ownership be it a program at church,a product on the shelf or a marketing plan translates into thedifference between participating in something and caring deeplyabout it.It reminds me of the old joke about the ham-and-egg breakfast.In producing it, the joke goes, the chicken is involved, but thepig is committed.
(Kabat, Waco Tribune-Herald) MOVED.MINTER-COLUMN ATLANTA For the fifth June in a row, incompany of the sailing half of our family, we are headed for aweek's sail and crab-cake tour of the Chesapeake Bay.
En route toBaltimore we enjoy a traditional Delta breakfast -- two smallcookies and coffee.
(Minter, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.These feature stories for release on the weekend of Saturday,June 20, 1998, are moving today to clients of the New York TimesNews Service.Stories are moving in the category they're listed under.
Storiesmoving to duplicate categories are marked.
All stories have movedexcept those with an ETA.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.DONATE-SHOES WEST PALM BEACH Residents of one of the city'spoorest neighborhoods were blessed with thousands of sports andoutdoor shoes recently after looters raided a tractor-trailerfilled with 5 tons of name brands parked a block off TamarindAvenue.
(Pallesen, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.CHATTAHOOCHEE-DENIED ATLANTA At the request of Alabama'sgovernor and congressional delegation, a White House committee hasbacked off from recommending President Clinton designate theChattahoochee as an American Heritage River.
(Seabrook, AtlantaJournal-Constitution) MOVED.WARNER-ON-WOOD There is probably no more ubiquitouswoodworking hand tool than the Blue Chip chisels made by theBritish firm of Marples.
I've got a set, you've probably got a set.They're everywhere.
(Warner, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED.BBQ American kids may think their dads invented barbecue.
Butthat's not exactly how the story goes.
Roasting food over fire isthe oldest form of cooking in the world; picture the cavemanlicking his fingers after a satisfying cookout.
Nowadays, it's aspopular as ever, especially in the United States, where more than75 percent of households own a grill.
(Recipes for BBQ follow.
)(Norris, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.BBQ-SIDE Americans aren't the only ones who get fired up aboutgrilling.
Here's a look at barbecuing in different countries.
(Listfollows.)
(Norris, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.AUDIO-LATIFAH The verdict: More RB with rapper Queen Latifahup front.
Her voice and pen are still strong enough to prop up weakmelodies.
(Murray, Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.VIDEO-DOVE Bonham Carter (once little more than a pretty face,now a real actor) is exquisite to watch.
Her Kate become not onlythe agent but the victim of her own scheming.
Grade: A - (Murray,Atlanta Journal-Constitution) MOVED 6/16.MODERNDESIGNS HIGH POINT, N.C. Modern designs, with clean,simple lines, lighter woods and streamlined shapes, are headed tofurniture showrooms this fall.
Among the designers leading the wayis Larry Laslo, one of the country's top creators of contemporaryfurnishings, who introduced The Moderne Collection aFrench-influenced Deco/Cubist/Modernist line for Bexley HeathLtd.
at the spring High Point show.
(Flanders, AtlantaJournal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.RELIGION-BLACKARTS Celebrating its 10th anniversary this year,the National Black Arts Festival (July 10-19) has become one of theforemost events of its kind.
An event this large has substantialvolunteer needs, from ushers and office help to people to greetartists at the airport and help them around Atlanta.
(Henry,Atlanta Journal-Constitution)ETA 8 p.m. ET.ALBANY, N.Y. One of the darkest fears I hear expressed by the50 or so people who call me every day is that the poor are rippingthem off.Well, it's true that one New Yorker in 18 collects welfare.
It'salso true that the overwhelming majority of those welfarerecipients are children people who can't yet work and wouldstarve in the streets if they weren't provided for them.
But I canunderstand resentment against able-bodied adults who are on thedole.Oh, you think that doesn't happen?
Then you should know thatabout two years ago, just before Congress passed welfare reform,the inspector general of the Social Security Administration lookedinto how many inmates nationwide were illegally receiving SocialSecurity benefits, mostly disability payments.His estimate?
About 60,000 jail and prison inmates werecontinuing to collect that money even though they were in theslammer and no longer eligible.
How much money are we talkingabout?
Oh, only about $500 million a year.How can a thing like this happen?
Well, when the inmates go intothe slammer some of them somehow neglect to mention to anybody inauthority that they're collecting.
OK, so that's fraud.
So, what'sanybody going to do to them put them behind bars?The Empire State has about 7 percent of the country'spopulation.
That meant that, all factors being equal, about 4,200New York jail and prison inmates probably were collecting illegalSocial Security benefits.And, when you talk about New York as opposed to the rest ofAmerica, nothing is ever equal.
New York is Ripoff Central, USA.New Yorkers probably had more than their share of incarceratedSocial Security cheats.What Washington did to deal with this was to come up with abounty system to encourage state prison systems and local jails tofind Social Security cheats.
Find a cheat and we'll give you money,Washington said.So now the New York state prison system is assiduous abouttrying to catch Social Security cheats.
The state averages aboutfive grand a month in bounty money from the feds.
Local jails arealso trying to crack down.
Last year, for example, the SaratogaCounty jail in suburban Albany, which has maybe 190 inmates at anygiven moment, found 11 Social Security cheats and collected $4,400in bounty money from the feds.
So far this year, Saratoga Countyhas nailed another four and collected about $2,800 in bounties.
Thejail in Rensselaer County, another Albany suburb with about 265inmates at any given moment, caught four guys just in the pastmonth.But no such bounty program exists for state-delivered benefitslike welfare.
And people who go to jail are more likely to bereceiving welfare benefits than the general population.Three years ago, the administration of Gov.
George Pataki begancomparing state and local inmate lists with welfare lists.
Sincethen, the computer runs have nailed about 2,500 inmates a year andsaved about 12 million bucks annually.
But, given the SocialSecurity Administration figures, that number strikes me as a bitlow.So, here's my suggestion: The Pataki administration not tomention the administrations of other states around the country should offer the state prison system and the local jails the samesort of bounties for jailed welfare cheats that the feds areoffering for jailed Social Security cheats.
The worst that canhappen is that jailers won't catch any extra cheaters.Need I say Woods?
Need I say the most famous sports hero in theworld, even for those who don't quite consider golf a sport?The only break you get from hearing his name is when themarshals hush the crowd before a shot, and thank God for that bitof etiquette.Etiquette crumbles somewhat when the Tiger stampede starts.
Whenit's coming at you, you know how Custer felt when he saw the Siouxnation coming.Except this nation comes in all races, ages and color of poloshirts, and you don't die, except maybe of boredom.
This is golf,after all.It starts with the tiny figure of Tiger Woods swinging a clubfar in the distance.
Before the ball finishes rolling 290 yardstoward you, the horde of uncountable thousands is coming your wayalong the sidelines.Tiger Nation isn't quite what you'd think it is.
Most Tigerstalkers were like most golfers older white guys who'd look rightin a Lexus.
Tiger is a golf phenom, not an ethnic phenom.Sure, there were a lot of young people.
At 6:30 a.m. high schoolstudents Nancy Luu and Jason Cunningham already had staked outseats in the top row of the bleachers at the 18th hole.The complexion of the crowd at the U.S. Open had changed quite abit since the last time it was at the Olympic Club in 1987.
Therewere hundreds of African Americans, Asian Americans and Asians.Shinichi and Chikako Saito came all the way from Osaka, Japan, towatch the tournament in their new Stanford University sweat shirts,and yes, watch Stanford's most famous alumnus.I saw a teen-ager in a Tupac Shakur T-shirt and baggy pants,which led to the most interesting clothing clash on the course allday.Two girls his age walked by, looked at his Tupac shirt andgiggled.
They were wearing Bermudas and blouses in Muffy-Buffyplaids.
Hey, who's wearing the funny clothes here?Tiger unites all, though.
As he approached the 14th hole, thekid in the Tupac shirt began chatting with an older man in a blueblazer and Panama hat.John Daly, what a guy.
He looks like John Candy's younger,meaner brother.
He hits long, lives large and is my kind ofathletic role model.
A Kaiser roll model.I was waiting along the first fairway for Tiger when Daly's balllanded nearby.
He leaned on his club and lit up a ciggy.
When itwas time to hit, he crushed it on the fairway.
His caddy picked upthe butt.Those are the kinds of details you see watching golf in personthat you'll never see on television.Oh, the power of this sport.
The player in question put hisglove back on, leading to follow-up glove analysis.Some advice if you're going on safari with Tiger this weekend.Just do it briefly.
It's great to see him up close, but you onlysee parts of him between heads, under visors and around carefullybobbed hair.There has to be more to watching golf than that.
Don't ask me.
Ionly saw Tiger once close up, and never did see him sink a putt.
Iassume he did.Need I say Woods?
Need I say the most famous sports hero in theworld, even for those who don't quite consider golf a sport?The only break you get from hearing his name is when themarshals hush the crowd before a shot, and thank God for that bitof etiquette.Etiquette crumbles somewhat when the Tiger stampede starts.
Whenit's coming at you, you know how Custer felt when he saw the Siouxnation coming.Except this nation comes in all races, ages and color of poloshirts, and you don't die, except maybe of boredom.
This is golf,after all.It starts with the tiny figure of Tiger Woods swinging a clubfar in the distance.
Before the ball finishes rolling 290 yardstoward you, the horde of uncountable thousands is coming your wayalong the sidelines.Tiger Nation isn't quite what you'd think it is.
Most Tigerstalkers were like most golfers older white guys who'd look rightin a Lexus.
Tiger is a golf phenom, not an ethnic phenom.Sure, there were a lot of young people.
At 6:30 a.m. high schoolstudents Nancy Luu and Jason Cunningham already had staked outseats in the top row of the bleachers at the 18th hole.The complexion of the crowd at the U.S. Open had changed quite abit since the last time it was at the Olympic Club in 1987.
Therewere hundreds of African Americans, Asian Americans and Asians.Shinichi and Chikako Saito came all the way from Osaka, Japan, towatch the tournament in their new Stanford University sweat shirts,and yes, watch Stanford's most famous alumnus.I saw a teen-ager in a Tupac Shakur T-shirt and baggy pants,which led to the most interesting clothing clash on the course allday.Two girls his age walked by, looked at his Tupac shirt andgiggled.
They were wearing Bermudas and blouses in Muffy-Buffyplaids.
Hey, who's wearing the funny clothes here?Tiger unites all, though.
As he approached the 14th hole, thekid in the Tupac shirt began chatting with an older man in a blueblazer and Panama hat.John Daly, what a guy.
He looks like John Candy's younger,meaner brother.
He hits long, lives large and is my kind ofathletic role model.
A Kaiser roll model.I was waiting along the first fairway for Tiger when Daly's balllanded nearby.
He leaned on his club and lit up a ciggy.
When itwas time to hit, he crushed it on the fairway.
His caddy picked upthe butt.Those are the kinds of details you see watching golf in personthat you'll never see on television.Oh, the power of this sport.
The player in question put hisglove back on, leading to follow-up glove analysis.Some advice if you're going on safari with Tiger this weekend.Just do it briefly.
It's great to see him up close, but you onlysee parts of him between heads, under visors and around carefullybobbed hair.There has to be more to watching golf than that.
Don't ask me.
Ionly saw Tiger once close up, and never did see him sink a putt.
Iassume he did.DEAR DR. BOMBAY: In a recent conversation with tech support, Idiscovered new laws of physics.
The dilemma was over whether aCD-ROM drive was broken or whether a game was at fault.
The techsupport person told me that since the back of my CD wasgold-colored, that was the problem.
He said it was notindustry-standard silver.
I accepted this politely even though Iknew it was a lie.DEAR PEEVED: Now that's what's wrong with the relationshipbetween the computer industry and consumers.
You were willing tojust roll over and accept any load of fertilizer they handed you.To clear things up, it doesn't matter that your CD was gold.
Thelittle laser thingie that shines on its surface is looking formicroscopic holes in the reflective surface, and it could care lessabout colors.
Take a look at a recordable CD.
Guess what color itis.DEAR DR. BOMBAY: Is there any way somebody can find out that Itrade adult pictures with people I meet on America Online?DEAR DR. BOMBAY: What does one do with old CD-ROM programs?
I'dhate to just trash them.DEAR NOT: Well, they're not aerodynamic enough to make decentFrisbees.
They're lousy as coasters.
You can only make so manycutesy clock faces out of them.
Maybe hang them in the trees toscare off squirrels?
Find a used software shop and try to make afew bucks?
Give them to a school or church or charity and take anice tax deduction?
Listen, you tell me what to do with them.
I'vegot a closet full of the things.
But then, I plan to use them ascurrency after the coming revolution puts the world in my evilclutches.
I guess I shouldn't have tipped you off about that.
(Noted computerologist Dr. Emilio Bombay offers occasionallyaccurate advice about most things electronic.
He can be reached onInternet at drbombay(at)star-telegram.com; via snail-mail at FortWorth Star-Telegram, Box 1870, Fort Worth 76101; or fax: (817)390-7257.
His real name is Michael Gerst, editorial systems managerfor the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
Visit the Star-Telegram's onlineservices on the World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com) WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I wassomebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in themirror, I lean my head just so.
Then from far-off points I comb themorning strands in a left-to-right swipe.
It is their commute towork.I realized the futility of this exercise the morning afterMichael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging hisneck like superfluous follicles.I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, theepitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing onhis head but Air.And look at heads around the league, and look at the leaguesbelow, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,which has less and less suit every year.And we're not just talking about black guys.
During the playoffsthe Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coachLarry Bird look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits wouldhave caused it to lose its skin.
But if that guy can parade lobarnudity with pride, so can the rest of us.
The fact is, we know wecan because Mike does.Yes, this is about Michael Jordan.
Just ask NBC.
He's next toGod and bigger than the Beatles.As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economichardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off thelittle man.
In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber intothe income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.That's why I'm the one next to make a mint.
I've applied for apatent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to loseit.
Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,Nogaine, is a winner.The baldness-causing agent?
That's secret, of course.
Generally,I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in theblood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team.
Nowyou can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without hisblood pressure.In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not hisjump shot.
Hey, you take what you can get.We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impedimentto excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, allthose creams and combs.
With Nogaine, fuss no more.The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by theforces of baldness over those of baldness remedies.
Utah's KarlMalone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine.
Loser.No I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only bethe first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on my modernsocial developments.That's why, with women already starting to recoil fromscientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busyworking on a pill to restore male impotence.The book, first issued last year in hardcover, is built aroundprofiles of media moguls such as Murdoch, TCI's John Malone, TimeWarner's Ted Turner, Microsoft's Bill Gates and Viacom's SumnerRedstone the toll-takers, construction bosses and salvage-truckoperators on the information superhighway.Auletta's M.O.
is to spend time in board rooms and corporatejets with members of the billionaire boys' club, seeing themup-close and personal and, he hopes, unrehearsed.
In the process,he tries to glean insights into how they do deals and where they'relikely to go next on the Infobahn.Auletta says he realizes that top CEOs might give him access totheir meetings, meals and tete-a-tetes because they think they canco-opt him for their own self-promoting purposes, but he thinksit's worth taking the risk.For example, Murdoch, the son of a relatively small-timeAustralian newspaper proprietor, was snubbed at his exclusiveEnglish boarding schools and made to feel the unworthy outsider asa boy.
Thus, while he is politically conservative, Murdoch seeshimself as anti-establishment and has a me-against-the-worldattitude.
He is, in Auletta's opinion, driven as much by personalanimus as by political agendas.Still, Auletta rakes Murdoch for taking the BBC World Serviceoff his Star TV satellite network in China because the Beijinggovernment thought the BBC was too critical of China.
He also takesMurdoch to task for publishing a flattering biography hagiography, actually of Beijing's late paramount leader, DengXiaoping, written by Deng's daughter for Murdoch's HarperCollins.WACO, Texas I just realized I should stop pretending I wassomebody else and start being like Mike, which is bald.I tell myself I'm not bald every day when, looking in themirror, I lean my head just so.
Then from far-off points I comb themorning strands in a left-to-right swipe.
It is their commute towork.I realized the futility of this exercise the morning afterMichael Jordan won his sixth NBA title, his teammates hugging hisneck like superfluous follicles.I thought to myself: Here is this man the world adores, theepitome of grace, style and merchandizing, and he's got nothing onhis head but Air.And look at heads around the league, and look at the leaguesbelow, the colleges, the high schools, the junior high leagues.There's more skin there than Sports Illustrated's swimsuit edition,which has less and less suit every year.And we're not just talking about black guys.
During the playoffsthe Indiana Pacers, in an apparent team initiative to make coachLarry Bird look prettier than John Tesh, all shaved their heads.Now, head-shaved, seven-footer Rick Smits is no Yul Brynner.Indeed, if Brynner had a backyard hound, the sight of Smits wouldhave caused it to lose its skin.
But if that guy can parade lobarnudity with pride, so can the rest of us.
The fact is, we know wecan because Mike does.Yes, this is about Michael Jordan.
Just ask NBC.
He's next toGod and bigger than the Beatles.As hairlessness sweeps the land, we must wonder about economichardships, all those hair cuts, and who's making a mint off thelittle man.
In Waco, this trend could vault the local barber intothe income bracket occupied only by the local allergist.That's why I'm the one next to make a mint.
I've applied for apatent on a new hair-loss drug no, not to restore hair, to loseit.
Pending FDA approval, I think the trademark I've secured,Nogaine, is a winner.The baldness-causing agent?
That's secret, of course.
Generally,I can tell you it's synthesized to mimic pheromones found in theblood of veterans of President Clinton's damage-control team.
Nowyou can have the luxurious shimmer of James Carville without hisblood pressure.In salve or pill, Nogaine can give you MJ's shine, if not hisjump shot.
Hey, you take what you can get.We're coming to understand that this hair stuff is an impedimentto excellence, all those wasteful spins on the salon chair, allthose creams and combs.
With Nogaine, fuss no more.The Chicago Bulls' championship was a symbolic victory by theforces of baldness over those of baldness remedies.
Utah's KarlMalone has been a TV spokesman for Rogaine.
Loser.Now I'm thinking that getting rid of unneeded hair may only bethe first big-money pharmaceutical opportunity brought on by modernsocial developments.That's why, with women already starting to recoil fromscientific advances in the name of Viagra, my lab teams are busyworking on a pill to restore male impotence.Texas Baptists Committed is a Baptist moderates support groupthat during the last decade has fended off efforts of conservativesto take over the Texas convention in the way they've done at thenational level.But while conservatives are in full control of theNashville-based Southern Baptist Convention, moderates, led byBaylor University's moderates, control the independently governedBaptist General Convention of Texas.While continuing to support Southern Baptist missionaries andmany other efforts of the national denomination, Texas Baptists nowsend a smaller percentage of state money to the nationaldenomination and are backing moderate-led seminaries and universitytheological training as an alternative to conservative graduatetheological training.The statement was added to the Baptist Faith and MessageStatement, a general statement of beliefs that must be signed byall professors at the six seminaries supported by the nationaldenomination.Elliff said the biblical teaching doesn't mean wives have toknuckle under to husbands who mistreat them and their children.Two-way U.S.-China trade amounted to $157.2 billion last year about eight percent of U.S. trade worldwide.
White House officialssay about 120,000 American jobs are dependent on U.S. trade withChina, a nation of 1.2 billion with one of the fastest growingeconomies in the world.Clinton will emphasize the U.S. economic stakes in trade withChina during his 10-day, five-city visit to China that begins nextWednesday, McCurry said.Clinton's visit will be the first by an American president sinceChinese communist authorities cracked down on pro-democracydemonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989, leaving between 400 to800 dead and hundreds more imprisoned.McCurry noted America's deepening trade deficit with Asia due tothe inability of faltering Asian economies to import U.S. productsand the ever-cheaper prices of Asian goods in the United States.Clinton renewed the status on June 3.
Congress has 90 days tovote to disapproval the renewal.
The House is expected to take theinitial congressional action on Clinton's request after it returnsfrom the July 4 recess.The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that the U.S. tradedeficit soared to $14.5 billion in April a new record for themonth.Clinton, concerned about the plight of Asian economies, orderedthe purchase of Japanese yen earlier this week in an effort to stemthe declining value of the Japanese currency, a situation thatthreatened to escalate the 10-month old Asian crisis.PARIS On at least two counts, past experience does notencourage optimism that America's intervention to prop up thewilting Japanese yen will prove effective for long.First, intervention in money markets has not generally worked,and second, Japan in the past has repeatedly failed to live up toits promises to straighten out its economic problems.Japan's Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has pledged such steps,declaring he will act speedily to stimulate his country's economyand swiftly revamp the crippled banking system, with its pile ofbad loans, that has been a major factor in the crisis.The British daily said the forces within Japan that have beenblocking genuine reforms are so powerful that Hashimoto might haveto resign if he tried to do what he has promised.
The entrenchedbureaucracy that has long run Japan still appears reluctant tochange the methods that brought unprecedented post-World War IIprosperity but have now badly failed.Japanese officials have been guilty of trying to cover upaspects of the crisis, Ringet noted.PARIS On at least two counts, past experience does notencourage optimism that America's intervention to prop up thewilting Japanese yen will prove effective for long.First, intervention in money markets has not generally worked,and second, Japan in the past has repeatedly failed to live up toits promises to straighten out its economic problems.Japan's Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has pledged such steps,declaring he will act speedily to stimulate his country's economyand swiftly revamp the crippled banking system, with its pile ofbad loans, that has been a major factor in the crisis.The British daily said the forces within Japan that have beenblocking genuine reforms are so powerful that Hashimoto might haveto resign if he tried to do what he has promised.
The entrenchedbureaucracy that has long run Japan still appears reluctant tochange the methods that brought unprecedented post-World War IIprosperity but have now badly failed.Japanese officials have been guilty of trying to cover upaspects of the crisis, Ringet noted.For the first time since 1979 when Iranian students seized andheld American hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran for 444 days there is the possibility of improved U.S.-Iran relations.President Khatami wants to promote civil society and the rule oflaw.
He wants to end Iran's isolation.
He wants to improve the lifeof the Iranian people.
He is reaching out to Iran's neighbors andhe is reaching out to the United States.By himself, Khatami won't be able to reverse two decades ofstrident anti-Americanism.
He is engaged in a fierce power struggleinside Iran, which remains bitterly divided between hard-lineconservatives and reformers.I believe we need to begin a policy of engagement with Iran.
Itwill not be easy and it will take time to produce results, but I ampersuaded that such a policy serves the American national interest.The United States should use several avenues for outreach toIran and its people.
Just as President Khatami chose CNN to sendhis message to the United States, President Clinton or a seniorU.S.
official can talk directly to the Iranian people throughinterviews on Iranian radio and TV, or on the Persian service ofVoice of America.The United States is concerned about Iran's attitude toward theMiddle East peace process.
But we should not simply say Iran istotally opposed to the peace process.
We are deeply concerned aboutIran's support for international terrorism.
Yet as Khatami knows,Iran too has paid a price for terrorism.
It has paid in isolationfrom Europe, deep suspicion from its neighbors and sanctions fromthe United States.
Is Iran imposing constraints on the military activities ofgroups it has supported?
Hezbollah in Lebanon has talked aboutpulling back from the border with Israel if Israel withdraws fromLebanon.
We should test the Iranians' willingness to change wordsinto deeds.
Have military shipments through the Damascus Airportdiminished?
It may be too early to get definitive answers, but weshould be communicating to Iran specific, doable achievable stepsthat we want it to accomplish, on the way toward cutting off allsupport for political violence.
Is the declaratory policy of the Organization of IslamicConference, which condemned terrorism by all member states, holdingand being honored by Iran, the OIC's chairman for the next threeyears?The United States should send a USIA officer to the SwissEmbassy, to initiate and coordinate exchange programs with Iran.Former policymakers, professors, journalists, scientists, artists,writers and representatives of non-profit organizations should meetto discuss subjects of mutual interest.
These will help break downprejudices and misconceptions.In addition, the United States should change its visa policiesfor Iranians.
We should end the current rules that collectivelypunish Iranians through long delays for entire categories of visaapplicants.
When a U.S. wrestling team traveled to Tehran inFebruary, they were treated respectfully by the Iranian government.The United States reciprocated by treating Iranian wrestlers likecommon criminals, delaying them for two hours at the airport sothey could be fingerprinted and photographed.This was humiliating to them, insulting to Iran and directlycontrary to our interest in signaling a willingness to developbetter relations.While we should take necessary precautions for security reasonsand for full observance of immigration laws, we should no longersubject Iranians otherwise entitled to visas to long delays,expenses and humiliation.
(This commentary is adapted from a recent address by TheHonorable Lee H. Hamilton, member, U.S. House of Representatives,before the Council on Foreign Relations, in Washington, D.C.) For the first time since 1979 when Iranian students seized andheld American hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran for 444 days there is the possibility of improved U.S.-Iran relations.President Khatami wants to promote civil society and the rule oflaw.
He wants to end Iran's isolation.
He wants to improve the lifeof the Iranian people.
He is reaching out to Iran's neighbors andhe is reaching out to the United States.By himself, Khatami won't be able to reverse two decades ofstrident anti-Americanism.
He is engaged in a fierce power struggleinside Iran, which remains bitterly divided between hard-lineconservatives and reformers.I believe we need to begin a policy of engagement with Iran.
Itwill not be easy and it will take time to produce results, but I ampersuaded that such a policy serves the American national interest.The United States should use several avenues for outreach toIran and its people.
Just as President Khatami chose CNN to sendhis message to the United States, President Clinton or a seniorU.S.
official can talk directly to the Iranian people throughinterviews on Iranian radio and TV, or on the Persian service ofVoice of America.The United States is concerned about Iran's attitude toward theMiddle East peace process.
But we should not simply say Iran istotally opposed to the peace process.
We are deeply concerned aboutIran's support for international terrorism.
Yet as Khatami knows,Iran too has paid a price for terrorism.
It has paid in isolationfrom Europe, deep suspicion from its neighbors and sanctions fromthe United States.
Is Iran imposing constraints on the military activities ofgroups it has supported?
Hezbollah in Lebanon has talked aboutpulling back from the border with Israel if Israel withdraws fromLebanon.
We should test the Iranians' willingness to change wordsinto deeds.
Have military shipments through the Damascus Airportdiminished?
It may be too early to get definitive answers, but weshould be communicating to Iran specific, doable achievable stepsthat we want it to accomplish, on the way toward cutting off allsupport for political violence.
Is the declaratory policy of the Organization of IslamicConference, which condemned terrorism by all member states, holdingand being honored by Iran, the OIC's chairman for the next threeyears?The United States should send a USIA officer to the SwissEmbassy, to initiate and coordinate exchange programs with Iran.Former policymakers, professors, journalists, scientists, artists,writers and representatives of non-profit organizations should meetto discuss subjects of mutual interest.
These will help break downprejudices and misconceptions.In addition, the United States should change its visa policiesfor Iranians.
We should end the current rules that collectivelypunish Iranians through long delays for entire categories of visaapplicants.
When a U.S. wrestling team traveled to Tehran inFebruary, they were treated respectfully by the Iranian government.The United States reciprocated by treating Iranian wrestlers likecommon criminals, delaying them for two hours at the airport sothey could be fingerprinted and photographed.This was humiliating to them, insulting to Iran and directlycontrary to our interest in signaling a willingness to developbetter relations.While we should take necessary precautions for security reasonsand for full observance of immigration laws, we should no longersubject Iranians otherwise entitled to visas to long delays,expenses and humiliation.
(This commentary is adapted from a recent address by TheHonorable Lee H. Hamilton, member, U.S. House of Representatives,before the Council on Foreign Relations, in Washington, D.C.) Japan's economic performance in the 1990s continues to bedisappointing, frustrating and worrisome.
Tokyo's economicsluggishness is souring life at home and setting off internationalreverberations.Much of Japan's financial weakness is mirrored in other Asiancountries.
More important, Japan's failure to deal with itseconomic woes provides a hint of the resistance to reform that maybe expected elsewhere in the region.Indeed, among bureaucrats and politicians there remains a strongfaith in the Japanese style of capitalism and a resistance to trulyliberating financial markets.Nor is the Japanese public clamoring for deregulation.
Itassociates such reform with unemployment and instability inpersonal lives but the Japanese have spent the past half-centurytrying to reduce such uncertainty.The problems of the 1990s were started by the bursting of thereal-estate and stock-market bubbles of the 1980s.
The governmentdeserves much of the blame for the financial excesses and thestagnation that has followed, but its dogmatically conservativeattitudes are delaying recovery.The financial sector is swamped by a mind-boggling array of baddebts and underfunded pension liabilities, amounting to as much as$1.5 trillion.
Scandal after scandal exposes unethical or illegalbehavior.
And many of the policies being adopted to clean up thismess will delay resolution of the bad debts and counterproductivelyincrease government control.Despite the torrent of pronouncements from Tokyo about economicstimulus and deregulation, the world will be disappointed with theresults.
While some financial deregulation will occur, those whobelieve that Japan will adopt an American economic model aremistaken.Japanese bureaucrats and politicians, including the elite at theMinistry of Finance, continue to be in deep denial.
They do notcomprehend the extent of reforms necessary to restore the nation toeconomic health.
Instead they regard their current problems as apassing incident with no fundamental implications for the ongoingoverall system.These problems harbor a variety of international ramifications.The International Monetary Fund's bailout for Indonesia, Thailandand South Korea includes substantial reform of their financialsystems.Unfortunately, Japan will not be a firm supporter of thisinitiative.
Nor will Japan import many more goods and services asSoutheast Asia attempts to export its way out of trouble.
Japan hasdamaged its self-assumed role as a leader of Asia and will prove aweak international partner for the United States.Japan's present economic problems and reluctance to reformfollow an era of roughly 10 percent annual growth, which ended in1973.
After that, the economy grew at a more modest 4 percent untilthe early 1990s.
The Japanese slowdown has brought a gradual,piecemeal unraveling of the postwar financial boom.Eager for new business, large commercial banks moved into realestate lending in the 1980s with the Ministry of Finance's explicitsupport and guidance.
Along with insurance companies and securitiesfirms, they invested aggressively overseas as regulatoryrestrictions fell.For the first time in decades, the banks were faced withunfamiliar loan clients, but they continued to assume that theMinistry of Finance would guarantee their viability.
Theirrecklessness fed the real-estate and stock-market speculation ofthe late 1980s, which caused both urban real-estate and stockprices nearly to triple in four years.Furthermore, Japanese financial institutions' penchant formaking investments based on long-term personal or corporaterelationships had serious repercussions, especially when bankssought new clients.
Banks began financing new borrowers with thesame assumption that personal relationships would suffice as ascreening mechanism.
The herd instincts of Japanese banks took theplace of hard-nosed financial analysis.This explanation, however, puts the most charitable face on whatwas happening behind the scenes in Japan in the 1980s.
The scandalsthat have emerged in the 1990s have revealed shocking examples ofindiscretion and malfeasance.Favored investors at securities firms were given guaranteedreturns on their equity portfolios.
Huge loans went to smallbusinesses for speculation in the stock market and real estate.Large banks eagerly introduced crooked clients to subsidiary banksor credit co-ops in order to keep questionable loans off their ownbooks while hoping to benefit from the business.Financial institutions continued to pay off racketeers whothreatened to reveal negative information at annual shareholdermeetings.
Ministry of Finance officials told banks when to expectinspections, in exchange for lavish entertainment and other favors.And there have been allegations that the Ministry of Financeapproved and recommended illegal schemes to hide financialproblems.These scandals go far beyond isolated incidents.
They suggest adebilitating fear of disclosing bad news, illegal dealings betweenfinancial institutions, politicians and bureaucrats, and theinvolvement of organized crime.Presumably much of this behavior took place earlier, but boththe need for new outlets for lending and the euphoria created bythe stock and real-estate bubbles drastically increased itsprevalence.When the bubbles burst, the fallout included enormous bad debts,the magnitude of which is still not known, mainly because ofJapan's loose requirements on reporting bad, or nonperforming,loans.
In late 1997, the Ministry of Finance admitted that problemloans totaled some 79 trillion yen ($630 billion), about 15 percentof all Japanese bank lending and an enormous 16 percent of thegross domestic product.
These levels of bad debt resemble those inIndonesia or Thailand.More bad news may be coming since Japanese banks hold roughlyone-third of international loans to South Korea, Thailand andIndonesia.
Officially, Japanese lending to Asian countries totalssome $125 billion, but it may be larger.
An unknown portion ofthese loans are bad, but if Japanese banks behaved with the sameimprudence as elsewhere, the prognosis is not good.Overall, Japan's situation is not encouraging.
An outrightfinancial collapse with many banks going belly-up is unlikely, ifonly because of the lengths to which the government will go toprevent it.
But the more likely scenario Japan muddling alongwith substandard growth and an unstable financial sector ishardly more encouraging.
Neither scenario is good for Japan, Asiaor the world.Despite the seriousness of Japan's financial troubles, neitherTokyo nor the public believes in the American economic model.
AndJapan's reluctance to undertake reform may send conflicting signalsto other Asian nations as the crisis moves into its next stage.This is all the more unfortunate since Japan is a leading member ofthe IMF.Furthermore, Japan's economic stagnation suggests that it willdo little to revive Asia's health.
Asia's struggling economies willtry to recover by increasing their exports.
As the world'ssecond-largest economy, Japan could play a helpful role byabsorbing a portion of those exports.But here is the rub: Japan is following the same strategy as itspoorer Southeast Asian neighbors.
Rather than absorbing moreimports, Japan will shift its burden through more exports to theUnited States.
Despite any rhetoric about a global partnership,Tokyo is quite willing to let the United States underwrite theAsian recovery.The international ramifications of Japan's financial weaknessextend beyond economics.
The Japanese are now absorbed by domesticproblems; they have little interest in the problems of the rest ofAsia.
Japan was noticeably silent during the recent crisis overIraq, articulating only the request that any military action bepostponed until after the Nagano Winter Olympics.In the midst of South Korea's economic crisis, Japan chose topress a petty dispute over fishing rights.
Just a few years ago,Japan was awash in talk of playing a larger role in the world, andthe government mounted a modest campaign to become a permanentmember of the U.N. Security Council.
Today there is little interestexpressed in international diplomacy.Washington has found it difficult to exert pressure on Tokyo.But it is time for the United States to send less-than-subtlesignals to Japan.The relationship includes broad consulting arrangements, withinwhich American officials could simply stop providing advice.Through canceled meetings, unreturned telephone calls and a lack ofadvance notice of American policy moves, the United States can sendthe message that it no longer regards Japan as a global partner.This may seem like a heavy-handed way to treat the world'ssecond-largest economy, but under present circumstances it may bethe only way to move Japan off a path that is destructive for usall.
(Edward J. Lincoln is a Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studiesat the Brookings Institution.
This article is adapted from a longerversion in Foreign Affairs Magazine.)
Japan's economic performance in the 1990s continues to bedisappointing, frustrating and worrisome.
Tokyo's economicsluggishness is souring life at home and setting off internationalreverberations.Much of Japan's financial weakness is mirrored in other Asiancountries.
More important, Japan's failure to deal with itseconomic woes provides a hint of the resistance to reform that maybe expected elsewhere in the region.Indeed, among bureaucrats and politicians there remains a strongfaith in the Japanese style of capitalism and a resistance to trulyliberating financial markets.Nor is the Japanese public clamoring for deregulation.
Itassociates such reform with unemployment and instability inpersonal lives but the Japanese have spent the past half-centurytrying to reduce such uncertainty.The problems of the 1990s were started by the bursting of thereal-estate and stock-market bubbles of the 1980s.
The governmentdeserves much of the blame for the financial excesses and thestagnation that has followed, but its dogmatically conservativeattitudes are delaying recovery.The financial sector is swamped by a mind-boggling array of baddebts and underfunded pension liabilities, amounting to as much as$1.5 trillion.
Scandal after scandal exposes unethical or illegalbehavior.
And many of the policies being adopted to clean up thismess will delay resolution of the bad debts and counterproductivelyincrease government control.Despite the torrent of pronouncements from Tokyo about economicstimulus and deregulation, the world will be disappointed with theresults.
While some financial deregulation will occur, those whobelieve that Japan will adopt an American economic model aremistaken.Japanese bureaucrats and politicians, including the elite at theMinistry of Finance, continue to be in deep denial.
They do notcomprehend the extent of reforms necessary to restore the nation toeconomic health.
Instead they regard their current problems as apassing incident with no fundamental implications for the ongoingoverall system.These problems harbor a variety of international ramifications.The International Monetary Fund's bailout for Indonesia, Thailandand South Korea includes substantial reform of their financialsystems.Unfortunately, Japan will not be a firm supporter of thisinitiative.
Nor will Japan import many more goods and services asSoutheast Asia attempts to export its way out of trouble.
Japan hasdamaged its self-assumed role as a leader of Asia and will prove aweak international partner for the United States.Japan's present economic problems and reluctance to reformfollow an era of roughly 10 percent annual growth, which ended in1973.
After that, the economy grew at a more modest 4 percent untilthe early 1990s.
The Japanese slowdown has brought a gradual,piecemeal unraveling of the postwar financial boom.Eager for new business, large commercial banks moved into realestate lending in the 1980s with the Ministry of Finance's explicitsupport and guidance.
Along with insurance companies and securitiesfirms, they invested aggressively overseas as regulatoryrestrictions fell.For the first time in decades, the banks were faced withunfamiliar loan clients, but they continued to assume that theMinistry of Finance would guarantee their viability.
Theirrecklessness fed the real-estate and stock-market speculation ofthe late 1980s, which caused both urban real-estate and stockprices nearly to triple in four years.Furthermore, Japanese financial institutions' penchant formaking investments based on long-term personal or corporaterelationships had serious repercussions, especially when bankssought new clients.
Banks began financing new borrowers with thesame assumption that personal relationships would suffice as ascreening mechanism.
The herd instincts of Japanese banks took theplace of hard-nosed financial analysis.This explanation, however, puts the most charitable face on whatwas happening behind the scenes in Japan in the 1980s.
The scandalsthat have emerged in the 1990s have revealed shocking examples ofindiscretion and malfeasance.Favored investors at securities firms were given guaranteedreturns on their equity portfolios.
Huge loans went to smallbusinesses for speculation in the stock market and real estate.Large banks eagerly introduced crooked clients to subsidiary banksor credit co-ops in order to keep questionable loans off their ownbooks while hoping to benefit from the business.Financial institutions continued to pay off racketeers whothreatened to reveal negative information at annual shareholdermeetings.
Ministry of Finance officials told banks when to expectinspections, in exchange for lavish entertainment and other favors.And there have been allegations that the Ministry of Financeapproved and recommended illegal schemes to hide financialproblems.These scandals go far beyond isolated incidents.
They suggest adebilitating fear of disclosing bad news, illegal dealings betweenfinancial institutions, politicians and bureaucrats, and theinvolvement of organized crime.Presumably much of this behavior took place earlier, but boththe need for new outlets for lending and the euphoria created bythe stock and real-estate bubbles drastically increased itsprevalence.When the bubbles burst, the fallout included enormous bad debts,the magnitude of which is still not known, mainly because ofJapan's loose requirements on reporting bad, or nonperforming,loans.
In late 1997, the Ministry of Finance admitted that problemloans totaled some 79 trillion yen ($630 billion), about 15 percentof all Japanese bank lending and an enormous 16 percent of thegross domestic product.
These levels of bad debt resemble those inIndonesia or Thailand.More bad news may be coming since Japanese banks hold roughlyone-third of international loans to South Korea, Thailand andIndonesia.
Officially, Japanese lending to Asian countries totalssome $125 billion, but it may be larger.
An unknown portion ofthese loans are bad, but if Japanese banks behaved with the sameimprudence as elsewhere, the prognosis is not good.Overall, Japan's situation is not encouraging.
An outrightfinancial collapse with many banks going belly-up is unlikely, ifonly because of the lengths to which the government will go toprevent it.
But the more likely scenario Japan muddling alongwith substandard growth and an unstable financial sector ishardly more encouraging.
Neither scenario is good for Japan, Asiaor the world.Despite the seriousness of Japan's financial troubles, neitherTokyo nor the public believes in the American economic model.
AndJapan's reluctance to undertake reform may send conflicting signalsto other Asian nations as the crisis moves into its next stage.This is all the more unfortunate since Japan is a leading member ofthe IMF.Furthermore, Japan's economic stagnation suggests that it willdo little to revive Asia's health.
Asia's struggling economies willtry to recover by increasing their exports.
As the world'ssecond-largest economy, Japan could play a helpful role byabsorbing a portion of those exports.But here is the rub: Japan is following the same strategy as itspoorer Southeast Asian neighbors.
Rather than absorbing moreimports, Japan will shift its burden through more exports to theUnited States.
Despite any rhetoric about a global partnership,Tokyo is quite willing to let the United States underwrite theAsian recovery.The international ramifications of Japan's financial weaknessextend beyond economics.
The Japanese are now absorbed by domesticproblems; they have little interest in the problems of the rest ofAsia.
Japan was noticeably silent during the recent crisis overIraq, articulating only the request that any military action bepostponed until after the Nagano Winter Olympics.In the midst of South Korea's economic crisis, Japan chose topress a petty dispute over fishing rights.
Just a few years ago,Japan was awash in talk of playing a larger role in the world, andthe government mounted a modest campaign to become a permanentmember of the U.N. Security Council.
Today there is little interestexpressed in international diplomacy.Washington has found it difficult to exert pressure on Tokyo.But it is time for the United States to send less-than-subtlesignals to Japan.The relationship includes broad consulting arrangements, withinwhich American officials could simply stop providing advice.Through canceled meetings, unreturned telephone calls and a lack ofadvance notice of American policy moves, the United States can sendthe message that it no longer regards Japan as a global partner.This may seem like a heavy-handed way to treat the world'ssecond-largest economy, but under present circumstances it may bethe only way to move Japan off a path that is destructive for usall.
(Edward J. Lincoln is a Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy Studiesat the Brookings Institution.
This article is adapted from a longerversion in Foreign Affairs Magazine.)
Q. I am 26.
My long-term goal is to retire very comfortably, andmy short-term goal is to purchase a home around age 30.
I invest$90 a week in my 401(k) account, and have a current balance of$6,000 that is 60 percent invested in the George Putnam Fund ofBoston and 20 percent each in Putnam OTC and Emerging Growth and inFidelity Advisor Overseas.
I also have $2,000 in a savings account,and when it reaches $3,000 I plan to put it in Vanguard's BalancedIndex fund, adding $500 monthly.
Am I on the right track to reachmy goals?
How much will I have for my retirement years?A.
You are certainly on the right track and over the long termyou should do very well.Still, you likely won't attain the retirement goal withoutadditional savings, and the purchase of your first house may becloser to five years away than four.Here's how I calculate.
If you continue saving for retirement byputting away $4,680 a year, you would amass $2,060,438 over 39years, presuming average 10 percent annual growth.
Invested toproduce an income stream (at a portfolio average 7 percent), youcould expect an income of $144,230 a year.The trouble comes when you adjust for inflation.
At 4 percentaverage annual inflation, that $144,230 wilts down to the buyingpower of $31,243 in today's money.
If inflation averaged only 3percent, the current value would be $45,541 still probably notenough for a very comfortable lifestyle.The good news is that you needn't fret.
I suggest you calculatethe percentage of your current income that is going towardretirement and then maintain that percentage during your workingyears.Thus, every time you get a raise, you bump your contributions tothe retirement pool.
The result is that if your raises tend tomatch or beat the inflation rate, you will thus be countering theeffect of inflation, and will indeed be very comfortably fixed inretirement.As for the house savings, I advise against moving to a mutualfund, even an excellent one such as Vanguard Balanced Index.
Forshort-term savings, mutual funds are too aggressive; a marketdownturn could take a serious bite out of your savings over theshort term.I suggest you stick with money markets, CDs, US Treasurysecurities, and the like for your home-purchase savings.
If youcontribute $500 a month to this pool and achieve average annualreturns of 5 percent, over four years you would accumulate $28,883,which is probably enough for a condo down payment; after fiveyears, you would have a more comfortable $36,464, which would widenyour purchase options and remember that the higher your downpayment is, the lower the interest rate you are likely to get onthe mortgage.As for your 401(k) funds, it seems mostly solid, but I wouldwatch Putnam OTC and Emerging Growth fairly closely.
Afterexcellent performance from 1992 to 1995, it fell to bottom-quartileresults the next two years.
Its performance has improved this year,but it is still running slightly behind the average for its mid-capgrowth peers.If there are attractive alternatives in the small-cap or mid-caparena on your 401(k) menu, and if your fund doesn't soon return tosuperior performance, I'd consider a change.Q.
I am 54, married, and looking for retirement advice.
Mycurrent retirement portfolio consists of a 401(k) plan thatcontains $110,000 invested in Putnam Growth and Income and $107,000in Putnam High Yield Advantage funds.
Other assets include $124,000in common stocks and $115,000 parked in a money market fund.
I alsohave a life insurance annuity that will pay out $80,000 in the year2002.
At retirement, besides Social Security payments estimated at$1,400 a month, I will also have a small pension of $300 a month.My goal is to have at least $60,000 annual income in retirement.What do you recommend I do with the 401(k)?
Other available fundsare Putnam's Voyager, OTC and Emerging Growth, and International.Do we need more than the 401(k) savings to reach our goal?With the $9,500 annual additions, the 401(k) should grow to$669,881 over 11 years, presuming an average 8 percent annualreturn.
If we make the same assumption for your common stocks, thatsegment of the portfolio would be worth $289,123 after 11 years.If you simply let that $115,000 rot in a money fund and thetruth is I would not be a whole lot more aggressive it would addup to $196,689.Finally, if you were to invest the annuity payout that comes in2002 in a good GNMA fund yielding 6.5 percent a year, you couldexpect that to grow to $124,318 over the next seven years.
Thattakes us to a grand total of $1,280,011 a great deal more thanyou will need to supply your expected needs.As for investments, I'm going to presume your current portfolioreflects a pretty conservative guy after all, you have about 55percent of your savings in fixed-income holdings.
As I said, I'mnot very positive about stocks at this point, so I won't argue.But I would at least move the money market funds to FidelitySpartan GNMA or Vanguard GNMA.
This should get you about a 1.5percentage point better yield than a money market fund, and over 11years the interest-rate bumps to which bond funds are prey shouldbalance themselves out.Moreover, the difference between a 5 percent yield on $115,000and a 6.5 percent yield on the same investment works out to $33,313 enough to give you some comfort even if things don't work as Ipresume.Finally, if you put this money (as well as annuity proceeds whenthey arrive) in such a fund, by the time you retire the fixedincome side these funds plus the Putnam High Yield Advantageaccount will have grown to a size sufficient to meet yourprojected income needs.You could thus leave the balance of the portfolio in equities toprotect you against the likely effects of inflation afterretirement.Q.
I have been building UTMA accounts for my children, aged 10and 11, since 1991.
Each account now is worth a little more than$19,000, and each contains 400 shares of Vanguard Asset Allocationfund, 220 shares of Janus Fund, and 135 shares of T. Rowe PriceBlue Chip Growth fund.
I currently add $100 a month to eachaccount.
I had always intended this to be the children's collegefund, but now I am considering tapping into these accounts,beginning in 2001, to pay their tuition at a private high school.This would cost a little more than $5,000 a year.
I would continueto save college money, but perhaps in my own name, since much hasbeen made of the decreased potential for financial aid when collegesavings are in a child's name.
Does this plan raise any red flags?If it is sound, I think I should move out of an almost all-stockportfolio into investments that will protect principal, but I don'tknow what type of fund would be best.
Obviously a money market fundwill protect principal, but I can stand a little more risk in theshort term.
Should I make any changes all at once, or in phases?A.
The only substantial red flag I can see is that by spendingthe lion's share of the educational savings on a private highschool, you will have relatively little accumulated for them by thetime they're ready for college.
If you were to continue at your$100 a month pace for each, but this time putting it in your ownname and paying any taxes the accounts accrued, you might have$9,126 for the older child by the time of his or her freshman year,and $11,099 for the younger at the same period.
These projectionsare based on an assumption of average annual returns of 8 percent,and that might be optimistic since you correctly anticipate movingthese investments to more cautious vehicles as the time you willrequire the funds draws closer.So the first question is whether you can afford this course,which entails either saving more now for the college years, comingup with funds for college from other sources, or leaving the kidslargely to their wits when it comes college time -- i.e.
hoping forscholarships and grants to carry the bulk of the load.
But just asa point of reference, if you kept the current college savings poolworking until their freshman years, with the ongoing $100 monthlycontributions and average returns of 8 percent, the elder childwould have $39,279 at the beginning of the freshman year, and theaccount for the younger would be $43,661.Whatever you decide, it would indeed be wise to switch thefurther savings into your own name.
And if you go with the plan forprivate secondary education, I agree that the portfolios would befairly sharply realigned.
All three of your funds concentrate onlarge- cap stocks (although Vanguard Asset Allocation has 40percent of its portfolio in long-term bonds).
If the funds are tobe used in the next six years, I'd suggest something like this:retain 25 percent in Vanguard Asset Allocation and then divide thebalance between Vanguard High-Yield Corporate and VanguardIntermediate-Term U.S. Treasury funds.Although the current $19,000 balances are probably more thandouble the amount of your cash contributions, remember taxes havebeen paid on distributions each year as the accounts grew, and theamount of those reinvested distributions increases your base cost.Whatever the tax bill comes out to, it's probably prudent to payit now and reduce the risk.If you decide against a private high school, I would stillreduce the portfolio's risk, but not as dramatically -- probablyretaining the Asset Allocation position as is and move about halfthe money in the all-stock funds into a high-yield bond fund.Q.
I graduated from college a year ago and will be 23 at the endof next month.
I want to get an early start on retirement planning.I am involved in a family real estate development business and havea good earning potential.
I plan to set up a Keough plan next year.If I were to put $10,000 or $15,000 into this plan every year, whatkind of a nest egg would I be looking at when I am both 43 and 53years old?
My thought is to go strictly with growth funds becauseof my age.
What strategy would you advise if I am able to save thismuch cash?A.
A 20-year investment program with contributions of $833 amonth (or $10,000 a year) would grow to $589,942, assuming 10percent average annual contributions; bump the monthlycontributions up to $1,250, or $15,000 a year, and the sum would be$898,417.But it's in the next decade that the cash really begins to pileup, taking the kitty to $1,720,378 with the lower level ofcontributions, and to $2,570,578 at the $15,000 annual level.I agree that growth funds are the ticket for a fellow your age,but you'll want to spread your bets among various sectors of themarket.
In my example, I'll cite Fidelity funds, but you couldbuild a similar portfolio with most other major fund families.I'd start with the dominant and boring end -- putting half ofthe contributions into Fidelity Spartan Market Index fund, whichsimply seeks to track the Standard and Poor's 500 Index.
(If youdon't like the idea of an index fund, you might consider anothersolid large-cap dominated fund such as Fidelity Growth and Income,but I would go with the index.)
Then I would add 20 percent in agood small-cap fund, such as Fidelity Low-Priced Stock.I would split the final 30 percent equally among aninternational fund such as Fidelity Overseas, and two sector funds-- Fidelity Select Health Care and Fidelity Select Technology.
Bothof these latter funds are likely to provide bumpy rides at times,but with your very long outlook, you can afford to ride them out.Finally, ignore the markets.
What you are doing is effectivelyembarking on a twenty- or thirty-yeasr dollar-cost averagingprogram, and what you want to do it stuff away the $833 or $1,250 amonth regardless of the state of the markets -- reasoning thatwhatever price you pay now will look mighty attractive a decade ortwo hence.Simply refuse to allow yourself to get spooked if a market turnssour and you find yourself moving backwards for a quarter, or evena year or so.
Also, be realistic in your projection ofcontributions.
You'd be far better off settling for the lowerfigure and sticking to it doggedly than by aiming high, making thepayment this month, missing it next month, and reducing it thethird.Q.
Can you tell me the best way to go with a $1,000 gift I planto make to a granddaughter on her graduation?A.
If this is a high-school graduation and she plans to go on tocollege, I simply suggest a check made out to the college, withyour granddaughter's name on the memo line of the check.
But ifthis is a college graduation, I have two suggestions.Unless you have a particular use in mind for the money, why notsimply give it to her and let her determine what to do with it.Typically a new college graduate has never been so broke in herlife.But let's suppose you want this money to stay with yourgranddaughter and become the seed from which her future financialsecurity grows.
In that case I suggest this: Tell her that aftershe has reached $1,000 in earned income, you will give her a checkmade out to a mutual fund company which will represent thebeginning of her retirement savings.
I would suggest a Roth IRAinvested in either Vanguard Index 500 fund or Fidelity SpartanMarket Index fund -- almost identical offerings which simply seekto track the course of the Standard and Poor's 500 Index.
A modestgift?
Well, let's suppose she is 21 years old and leaves the moneythere until she's 65.
If the fund produces average annual returnsof 10 percent over those 44 years, the nestegg would be $66,264when she is 65.WASHINGTON In a significant tactical shift, President Clintonwill press his demands for the release of over a dozen Chinesedissidents at next week's summit in China in closed meetings, notin the media.After years of wrangling publically with China over humanrights, the administration has decided to take a different approachfor the nine-day summit, which starts June 26.
This stance is basedin part on the fact that China no longer holds dissidents who arewell-known outside of the country.The change is also an admission that the old US policy did notwork.
As celebrated dissidents were freed from prison, others wereput behind bars.
Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albrightwill stress that Washington wants basic legal reforms in China, notsimply a trickle of prisoner releases in coming months.Once they settled in the United States, many of the formerdissidents lost their effectiveness as protesters.
They spent moreof their time in school or making money or squabbling amongthemselves.This time, the administration has worked with non-governmentalgroups in compiling a high-priority list of dissidents to be freed.But their names have not been released.
This is in sharp contrastto last fall's Sino-American summit in Washington, when the WhiteHouse made no secret of its desire to see the release of WeiJingsheng and Wang Dan, prominent democracy activists.Chinese prison cells are filled with other political prisoners.By the government's count, some 2,200 remain locked up.
The Clintonadministration has put special emphasis on several of them becauseof the severity of their sentences or the unjust circumstancessurrounding their arrests.
They include: Chen Longde, a human rights worker who was arrested in 1996 forwriting to the People's Congress about corruption and lack ofdemocracy.
After suffering torture by electric shocks and beatings,Chen jumped from a two-story platform at a labor camp.
Barelymobile because of two broken hips and a damaged kidney, he is stillforced to do labor, according to Human Rights Watch.There are also people like Ngawang Choephel hardly a householdname here.
Choephel, who who spent the 1992-93 academic yearstudying and teaching ethnomusicology at Middlebury College inVermont on a Fulbright scholarship, was unfairly imprisoned byChina two years ago, according to US officials.During a 1995 trip to Tibet, his homeland, he worked on adocumentary about music and dance.
Chinese authorities arrested himand charged him with spying.
He was sentenced in 1996 to 18 yearsin prison.Eager to make an example of Tibetian political prisoners, Chinararely, if ever, releases them before their sentences end.Human rights groups are divided about whether the US governmentshould concentrate on behind-the-scenes pleas for the release ofdissidents.Tong Yi served as a secretary and researcher to Wei Jingshen,the dissident.
While Wei was imprisoned, she was dispatched to acamp for more than two years.
She never had a chance to dispute thecharges against her or to appeal her conviction.The only re-education occurred when visitors toured the sitesand the guards pretended to teach lessons in Communism.Robert Joseph Cousy, without whom there would have been noBoston Celtics for Bill Russell to lead in the direction of those11 championships, played his final game as a Celtic on April 24,1963.
He had sprained an ankle during the game, but he returnedwith his team in trouble against a good Lakers team.
With TheCooz's firm hand on the tiller, the Celtics nailed downchampionship No.
6 that night in the Los Angeles Sports Arena.He played for the Boston Celtics, which means that his No.
14 isjust one of 18 retired numerals.
So many great players haveperformed for this team that it is understandable if the names andachievements all sort of run together after a while.
It is hard nowto conjure up the circumstance of the early '50s, when the Celticshad no cachet in this town and the only reason most people went tosee the team play was the electrifying and magnetic presence of thegame's best passer, ballhandler, and thinker.
Absent Cousy, theCeltics would have quite literally ceased to exist.Along with George Mikan, he was the NBA to the first generationof professional basketball fans.
This is why among People of aCertain Age, Bob Cousy remains an airport traffic stopper.
BobCousy is one of the great American sports heroes of the century.Much like his old coach, Red Auerbach, The Cooz respects thepast but does not wallow in it.
He is, without question, moreknowledgeable about the modern NBA than any of his contemporariesbecause he has left it only once in the 35 years since hisretirement, that being his six-year stint as coach at BostonCollege (117-37).
He coached the Cincinnati Royals from 1969through the 23d game of the 1973-74 season, and before thatcampaign was over, he began a local broadcast career that continuesto this day.As anyone who has covered the Celtics in the lastquarter-century knows, The Cooz still does his homework.
He goes tohome games in order to look over opponents he'll be discussing inhis road telecasts.
He keeps voluminous files on every team.
He isalways on top of the new talent.
He doesn't settle for being araconteur.
He is always current.
The next night he mails in aperformance will be the first.We can naturally assume he'll be back in the headset for anotherfew years.
I mean, he (itals)is(unitals) Bob Cousy, is he not?He has played against, played for, or witnessed every great teamthe NBA has had to offer in the past five decades, which makes himthe ideal person to discuss the historic placement of the ChicagoBulls.But The Cooz will not sign on to the proclamation that the Bullsare the greatest thing ever to come along or that their six titlesin eight years is an equivalent achievement to the Celtics' 11championships in 13 seasons from 1957-69.It's true.
The 1962-63 Celtics included Russell, Cousy, TomHeinsohn, Havlicek, Frank Ramsey, Sam Jones, K.C.
Jones, and anend-of-career Clyde Lovellette, all of whom have been inducted intothe Basketball Hall of Fame.My daddy gave the newspaper a pulse.
He taught me to love itschanging canvas, its omnipotent eye, its infinite throat.
And sinceone long-ago tabloid featured his obituary, it is much too late toapologize to him for compromising that love.From time to time in my metro column, to create the desiredimpact or slam home a salient point, I attributed quotes to peoplewho didn't exist.
I could give them names, even occupations, but Icouldn't give them what they needed most a heartbeat.
As anyonewho's ever touched a newspaper knows, that's one of the cardinalsins of journalism: Thou shall not fabricate.
No exceptions.
Noexcuses.And yet there are always excuses.
Usually they point to thecursed fallibility of human beings, our tendency to spit in theface of common sense, zigging when the world says zag.
Sometimesexcuses reveal real or imagined inadequacies, or the belief thatthe world, if it is to be conquered, must be conqueredsinglehandedly.I've already heard from dozens of people in search of anofficial sound-byte, a hook upon which to hang the newly fallenwordsmith.
The (itals)reason.
(unitals)But I didn't establish priorities, and the first casualty wastime.
In Boston, my face was my column.
I wanted the pieces tojolt, to be talked about, to leave the reader indelibly impressed.And sometimes, as a result of trying to do too much at once andcutting corners, they didn't.
So I tweaked them to make sure theydid.
It didn't happen often, but it did happen.
And if it had onlyhappened once, that was one time too many.I will survive this knowing that the heart of my columns washonest and heartfelt.
None of the pieces considered for theAmerican Society of Newspaper Editors award or this year's PulitzerPrize were doctored in any way.
I will write as long as I breathe,despite the dire predictions that this indiscretion spells the endof my career.
In the course of living this flawed life, I'vestepped into the lives of remarkable people.
They will always livein me.So to the welders, the B-boys, the preachers, and the surgeons,to the grocery clerks and bartenders and single mothers, to thepoliticians, PR flacks, spokespersons and secretaries, to my dearhusband and family and friends, I am sorry for betraying yourtrust.
To the editors who supported and encouraged me, as well asthose who jumped ship when the mighty USS Smith began to take onwater, thanks for the lessons.
To those colleagues and readers whosalivated daily at the thought of my head on a platter, congrats.And to the hundreds of real people who honored me with their timeand stories, you are my salvation and I will hold you tight duringthis trial.To every single reader, young and old, black and white, whoopened their papers on Monday and Friday and trusted me to betruth, know this: You were the truth all along.Finally, I'd like to apologize to the memory of my father, OtisDouglas Smith.
He burns in my soul through this, and beyond this.In three rugged months spent fly-fishing from Murmansk toMagadan and beyond, Montaigne plunges into the method and madnessof an addictive world he has come to love through years ofreporting out of Moscow for the Philadelphia Inquirer.The beauty of this highly accessible book lies in Montaigne'ssense that to parse Russia, one must at some point escape the bigcities and venture into villages and wilderness.
Montaigne is notea-drinking urban intellectual in need of the theater tounderstand the fatalism and laughter-through-tears ethic that makethis country tick.In a tone engaged but distanced, and in a language denuded ofadornment, Montaigne details the lives of hermits and truckers,fishermen and madmen.
This is not an idyllic version of pastoral.Montaigne writes, accurately, of a country awash in hopelessness,alcoholism, and a conviction that rules are for the weak.
But healso shows the real Russia to be generous, friendly, and, at times,hard-working.The writer's friend Chumak, an extraordinarily foulmouthed butendearing farmer in southern Russia, typifies the medievalconditions of this former agricultural powerhouse.In the depths of far eastern Siberia, scrappy, entrepreneuriallong-haul truckers who make their living transporting Koreancookies to villages in the middle of nowhere take Montaigne alongfor the ride, generously sharing provisions.
These truckers, forwhom a breakdown in 50-degrees-below-zero winters can be deadly,listen to their rickety Kamaz engines as carefully as a BolshoiTheater-goer does a symphony.Montaigne is not always the cultural anthropologist a journalistshould be, especially when he dismisses Soviet monuments andslogans as nonsense or resorts to stale asides about theBolsheviks.
And he is a novice of a fly-fisherman, maladroit in theart of deceiving one's prey at least in Russia.
But the blunt,direct style that for most of his journey yields him few troutserves him well as a narrator, and one need not be a fisherman or aRussophile to gain pleasure from this book.Several times, Montaigne describes himself as bitten by thefishing bug, enraptured by the art of beguiling his quarry.
Butwhat has really captured and enchanted Montaigne's soul is Russia.His is an adventure of which well-heeled Western anglers kittedout in costly accouterments and tangled up in expectations that theworld must be ordered and rational to make sense can only dream.
For questions about stories, contact Frank Perrotta at theBoston Globe, 617-929-2597.
For individual purchase of graphicsor photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) -- During President Clinton's trip toChina, the United States is going to handle the dissident issuebehind closed doors and not through the press.
By David L. Marcus.1300 words.
(w and i coding)HOLBROOKE-ANALYSIS (Washington) -- President Clinton'snomination of Richard Holbrooke as ambassador to the UN marks aneffort to give new energy to America's foreign policy team ascrises loom in Asia, the Balkans and the Middle East.
By David L.Marcus.
(w and i coding) 1200 words.TOBACCO-BILL (Washington) -- Nearly one year after stateattorneys general hashed out an agreement with the tobaccoindustry, and after polls showed public support and a majority ofthe Senate said it favored the legislation, the bill still died.
ByBob Hohler.
(2 takes; w and a coding)JEWS-SOUTH (Jackson, Miss.)
-- Although Jews have disappearedfrom dozens of villages in the Baptist-dominated Bible Belt, Jewishcommunities are thriving in cities such as Atlanta, Charlotte,N.C., Charleston, S.C., and New Orleans.
Memphis is the home of thelargest Orthodox congregation in the country.
By Curtis Wilkie.1100 words.SMITH-COLUMN (Undated) -- To every single reader, young and old,black and white, who trusted me to be truth, know this: You werethe truth all along.
By Patricia Smith.
(Moved in last night'scycle.
)VENNOCHI-COLUMN (Boston) -- Hide the Big Dig?
Put the Gardendemolition under wraps?
Why not simply build a Truman Show kind ofset for the DNC and make it even easier to hide Boston's flaws?
ByJoan Vennochi.MUSIC-LYRES (Undated) When the Lyres are on Jeff Conollyplaying his Vox Continental one-handed, shaking a tambourine withthe other, and scream-singing, with his three mates pumping away life does not get much better.
By Jim Sullivan.BOOK-RUSSIA (Undated) In three rugged months spent fly-fishingfrom Murmansk to Magadan and beyond, Fen Montaigne plunges into themethod and madness of an addictive world he has come to lovethrough years of reporting out of Moscow for the PhiladelphiaInquirer.
By Lynnley Browning.RAC-NH-SWEEPS (Salem, N.H.) Without a win since last year, OKBy Me has an excellent chance to get back on track over a surfacehe relishes.
By Ron Indrisano.Perhaps, newcomer Christoper Scott Cherot, who wrote, directed,and stars in the failed screwball comedy, should have found one jobhe was good at, and stuck with it.
He's spread himself too thin,and just about every seam shows, with often clunky dialogue, flatdirection, and airless performances, save for Tammi KatherineJones's hilarious film debut, as one of the women eager to jump thebones of Cherot's Lee Plenty.Lee is a would-be writer with a monster case of writer's block.He's also homeless at the moment, resigned to keeping a roof overhis by housesitting and visiting friends.
One of those friends isHavilland Savage (Chenoa Maxwell, saddled with as absurb movie nameas you'll find), who is attractive, rich, and engaged to a annoyingboyfriend Michael (Hill Harper), an annoyingly pompous singer onthat rub-you-down, quiet storm R'n'B tip.Still, all of this might have been disgestible had Cherot notresorted to the creaky tactic of speaking directly to the audience a lot.
With rare exception, this is a screenwriter's way ofplugging the plot holes and narrative failings his lack ofcreativity could not.
If a movie is any good, it usually doesn'tneed one of the characters acting as the play-by-play announcer.The film's conclusion and the title's a dead giveaway ischeap and unbelievable, and has the audacity to attempt a ProfoundStatement about an artist's integrity vs. commercial success.
Yeah,right.WASHINGTON President Clinton nominated Richard Holbrooke asambassador to the United Nations Thursday, to energize the USforeign policy team as crises loom in Asia, the Balkans and theMiddle East.Clinton chose Holbrooke, a hard-charging diplomat and investmentbanker, because the United States is struggling to reform theUnited Nations while prodding allies to take tougher approachesagainst pariah countries such as Iraq.
At the same time, theadministration wanted a forceful advocate to urge Congress to payback dues of more than $1 billion to the UN.Holbrooke has openly campaigned for a high-level job foreignpolicy job in the administration for two years.
Officials whofollowed the decision-making said the traits that initially hurthim including an oversized ego and a reputation for stirringthings up worked to his advantage this time.The ascension of Holbrooke, a friend of both Clinton and VicePresident Al Gore, comes as the administration tries to recoverfrom several foreign policy setbacks.
The Middle East process isstalled, and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's top advisersfear a resurgence of terrorism against Israelis.
Nuclear tests byIndia in May caught the United States by surprise, despite what hadbeen regarded as a close relationship with the government in NewDelhi.At the UN, the administration is frustrated by Europeangovernments' reluctance to impose harsh sanctions on Iraq.
And manyof Clinton's advisers agree with Holbrooke's assertion that ethnicfighting in the Kosovo province of Serbia will spill out toneighboring countries unless the West quells the violence soon.In a meeting with India's new government this spring, Richardsonreportedly spent little time talking about the prospect of nucleartests and said the United States wanted to broaden itsrelationship.
Just a few weeks later, India conducted five atomicblasts.US officials disagreed about exactly what Richardson had saidduring his private meetings in New Delhi, and several said theState Department had unfairly blamed him for failing to send clearsignals to India.The officials said that in 1996, Albright resisted suggestionsthat Holbrooke serve at the UN because of his reputation forworking on his own and bucking his superiors.
But after a year anda half as Secretary of State, Albright apparently feels comfortableenough to share the limelight.Since John F. Kennedy appointed Adlai Stevenson ambassador tothe UN in 1961, most political appointees in the post have beenmade members of the Cabinet.
Although in theory they report to thesecretary of state, they sit at Cabinet meetings and give their ownrecommendations on policy.As a diplomat, Holbrooke has been involved in major events fromthe Paris Peace Talks that ended the Vietnam war to the Daytontalks that brought a fragile peace to Bosnia.
Currently the vicepresident of Credit Suisse First Boston, he served as a youngdiplomat under then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, worked as aPeace Corps country director in Morocco, assistant secretary ofState for Asia and ambassador to Germany.Democrats and Republicans agree that without Holbrooke'sconstant prodding, the Bosnian peace accord would not have beensigned in 1995.
But not everyone is a fan of Holbrooke or thepeacekeeping mission he engineered.
(This report was prepared by Bob Hohler, Michael Kranish, BrianMcGrory and Estella Duran of the Globe's Washington bureau and waswritten by Hohler.
)Cigarette makers had saturated the airwaves with a $40 millionassault on the plan.
The measure had mushroomed from a $368.5billion blueprint to a $516 billion package stuffed with so manyspecial-interest extras that not even its staunchest supporterswould defend it in its entirety.And House Speaker Newt Gingrich had recently sent a chillingmessage to his Senate colleagues.
With Republicans at risk oflosing control of the House in the November elections, Gingrichwanted no part of the high-stakes debate over the plan to punishthe tobacco industry for the next 25 years.Thursday, Lott and Gringrich said they will try to move forwarda narrower, less costly tobacco bill, while supporters of theSenate bill launched a prolonged effort to revive the measure.The continued skirmishing is part of a saga rich withlegislative infighting, political intrigue, and competingpresidential ambitions.
And though the antitobacco plan's officialcause of death was listsed as a one-two parliamentary punch bySenate Republican leaders and their allies, an examination of theplan's brief, tumultuous life showed many other factors contributedto its demise.It was a year ago Saturday that Moore, the attorneys generalfrom 39 other states, and lawyers for smokers with tobacco-relatedillnesses reached an agreement with the cigarette makers.The deal gave the industry what it wanted: financial stabilitythat would come with immunity from future class-action lawsuits anda $5 billion annual cap for individual liability claims.In exchange, the cigarette companies agreed to pay $368.5billion over 25 years to help states pay for smoking-relatedmedical costs and antismoking initiatives.
The industry also wouldstop most of its marketing practices, including the use of JoeCamel and the Marlboro Man.
And the Food and Drug Administrationwould be granted authority to regulate nicotine as a drug, with thepower to ban it as early as 2010.Morris had worked in Mississippi for trial lawyer RichardScruggs, polling on the tobacco issue in preparation for apotential lawsuit.
The polling, Morris said Thursday, showed thateven smokers favored greater restrictions on teenage smoking.Although Morris's mother died in 1993 from smoking-relatedcancer, he said he raised the issue with the Clinton administrationin purely political terms.It was, by many accounts, a novel and potentially effectiveidea, one with a clear villain and an obvious beneficiary take onthe mammoth tobacco companies for the sake of America's children.Morris drew then-FDA chief David Kessler into the fray, wholobbied Vice President Al Gore for his support.
With Gore as theleader, the group made a strong case to Clinton in the spring of1995.
Gore, a Tennessee native, persuaded Clinton he could survivethe issue in the tobacco-growing states in the 1996 elections.Within days of the accord, Clinton called on Congress to approveit so he could sign it into law.
But the settlement was never againthe same.In the Senate, Lott said he would recuse himself from thetobacco debate because Scruggs, who stands to make millions ofdollars in fees for helping Moore win the Mississipi case, is hisbrother-in-law.
Lott appointed a deputy, Senator Don Nickles,Republican of Oklahoma, to handle the issue.At first, the tobacco plan was so broad that seven Senatecommittees claimed jurisdiction over it.
Several chairmen wrangledbehind-the-scenes for months for control of the bill before SenatorJohn McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Commerce Committee,prevailed.For McCain, who is considering running for president, theassignment was a powerful opportunity to boost his nationalprofile.
But in the Senate, where 15 other members have eithersought the presidency or expressed interest in running in 2000, thejob also stirred the competitive fires of some potential foes.But other opposition arose.
When McCain's bill cleared thecommittee, it dwarfed last year's settlement with the states,raising the price by nearly $150 billion and removing immunity fromfuture class-action suits.Indeed, a week after McCain's bill passed in the committee, thetobacco industry vowed to kill the measure.
That was no idle threaton Capitol Hill, where big tobacco has long succeeded in defeatinglegislation.With 200 lobbyists on its payroll or two for each of the 100senators the industry quickly went to work.
But the lobbyistsneeded help, and the industry soon launched an unprecedentedadvertising blitz to turn voters against the bill.The effort was modeled after the campaign used by businessgroups to kill Clinton's sweeping health-care proposal in 1994,demonizing the tobacco plan as big-government intrusion and amassive tax hike.
In the health campaign, business groups spent anestimated $14 million on television commercials featuring Harry andLouise, two average people worried about the cost and impact of thepresident's proposal.The ad campaign was only the start.
In a surprising tactic, theindustry ads attacked McCain, even though he seemed an unlikelytarget as a former prisoner of war in the Vietnam War whom manyconsider a hero.The alliance's strategy reveals much about the way the industrydefeated the bill.
The group was primarily responsible for amassive letter-writing campaign against the legislation.
But thealliance also paid for print and radio advertisements in manystates, including several states with early presidential primariesand caucuses, such as New Hampshire, Iowa and South Carolina.
Theads also aired in tobacco-growing states, such as Kentucky, andswing states represented by senators who could play a key role inthe vote, such as Kansas and Pennsylvania.The campaign provided critical support for Ashcroft, Gramm, andNickles as they blasted the measure on the Senate floor as theworst tax-and-spend fiasco in decades.In addition, the tobacco industry flooded Republicans withcampaign contributions.
In the current campaign cycle, as of April1, the industry gave $3.4 million to Republicans and $933,016 toDemocrats.The contributions had an impact on the senators, according toPublic Citizen, a watchdog group.
The organization found that the34 senators who voted mostly in favor of the tobacco industryreceived seven times as much political action committee money asthe 40 senators who voted against the industry most of the time.Meanwhile, McCain's fragile coalition slowly crumbled.
As theSenate's GOP majority passed a series of amendments by Gramm,Ashcroft, and other foes of the measure, the bill's breadth andcost rose, alienating some of the centrists McCain and his allieswere counting on.The bill's supporters said one of the most damaging amendments,sponsored by Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican,stripped a provision that would have capped the tobacco industry'sannual liability from individual lawsuits at $8 billion.
Criticssaid the amendment could bankrupt the tobacco industry, a majorconcern to a dozen senators from tobacco-growing states, many ofwhom once supported the bill.By Wednesday, when Lott summoned the GOP senators to his officeto consider killing the bill, Republican pollster Linda DiVall hadcompleted a survey that ran counter to nearly every poll on thetobacco issue.DiVall's findings showed respondents, by a margin of 57 percentto 34 percent, opposed the McCain bill when they were told it wouldraise the price of cigarettes by $1.10 a pack over five years andexpand the bureaucracy.There is the usual soccer fanaticism a fan recently scouredthe downtown strip of sports stores buying up 1,000 Iranian jerseysfor friends in the United States.
Some universities postponed examsand people have delayed summer vacations until after the World CupTournament.But the love of Iranian soccer is better illustrated by impishnine-year-old Samayeh Hemati.
Under the required head scarf andblack cape, there's a soccer fan in blue jeans and sneakers.She plays with the boys in the street and saves a picture of herfavorite Iranian forward.Women might be the country's biggest fans, though they cannotplay on organized teams.
When the team qualified for the tournamentin December, men and women danced side-by-side in the streets.
Theruling religious Mullahs were nervous, but did not dare try to stopthem.It had been 20 years since Iran made it to the World Cup.
Sincethen, Iranians replaced a brutal, American-backed, dictator with apopular, but stern, Islamic revolution.
They stormed the U.S.Embassy in 1979, holding 52 Americans captive for 444 days.
Later,the Iranians saw one of their airliners shot down by a U.S. Navymissile.Last year they surprised the world by electing PresidentMohammad Khatami, who promised to loosen the strict religious codesif he can hold off the more powerful religious conservatives.When the team qualified for the World Cup in December, thousandsof women forced their way into the 100,000 seat male-only stadiumto honor the team.
People danced in the street and soccer startedto mean change.President Clinton has taped a goodwill message with the hope itwill be viewed on TV by Iranians during the game and a Swissreferee has been chosen to make sure things are neutral.Symptomatic of the country's identity crisis, Iranians have beenflipping channels between the World Cup action and the dramaticbroadcasts of the popular, reformist, mayor of Tehran.
He isdefending himself against religious conservatives who have put himon trial.Even today is not just saved for soccer.
Sunday is a work dayhere and the hard-line Iranian parliament is holding an impeachmenthearing for one of Khatami's most important cabinet members.Saturday's newspapers focused on that battle as well as the gameagainst the U.S., but it was clear that the soccer team isidentified with reform.Iran is at a crossroads.
Its 60 million people are testing thelimits of new personal freedoms and emerging from years of war andworld isolation.So, when Sunday's game starts in Lyon, France, at 11:30 p.m.Tehran time (mid-afternoon Eastern time), almost all Iranians willbe watching, but at home.Community centers had planned to show the game on big screens,but those plans were scrapped out of what many see as governmentconcern that a win or tie could spark highly un-religious streetcelebrations in the early morning.There is the usual soccer fanaticism a fan recently scouredthe downtown strip of sports stores buying up 1,000 Iranian jerseysfor friends in the United States.
Some universities postponed examsand people have delayed summer vacations until after the World CupTournament.But the love of Iranian soccer is better illustrated by impishnine-year-old Samayeh Hemati.
Under the required head scarf andblack cape, there's a soccer fan in blue jeans and sneakers.She plays with the boys in the street and saves a picture of herfavorite Iranian forward.Women might be the country's biggest fans, though they cannotplay on organized teams.
When the team qualified for the tournamentin December, men and women danced side-by-side in the streets.
Theruling religious Mullahs were nervous, but did not dare try to stopthem.It had been 20 years since Iran made it to the World Cup.
Sincethen, Iranians replaced a brutal, American-backed, dictator with apopular, but stern, Islamic revolution.
They stormed the U.S.Embassy in 1979, holding 52 Americans captive for 444 days.
Later,the Iranians saw one of their airliners shot down by a U.S. Navymissile.Last year they surprised the world by electing PresidentMohammad Khatami, who promised to loosen the strict religious codesif he can hold off the more powerful religious conservatives.When the team qualified for the World Cup in December, thousandsof women forced their way into the 100,000 seat male-only stadiumto honor the team.
People danced in the street and soccer startedto mean change.President Clinton has taped a goodwill message with the hope itwill be viewed on TV by Iranians during the game and a Swissreferee has been chosen to make sure things are neutral.Symptomatic of the country's identity crisis, Iranians have beenflipping channels between the World Cup action and the dramaticbroadcasts of the popular, reformist, mayor of Tehran.
He isdefending himself against religious conservatives who have put himon trial.Even today is not just saved for soccer.
Sunday is a work dayhere and the hard-line Iranian parliament is holding an impeachmenthearing for one of Khatami's most important cabinet members.Saturday's newspapers focused on that battle as well as the gameagainst the U.S., but it was clear that the soccer team isidentified with reform.WASHINGTON The Senate is poised to try yet again in July toenact legislation that has been around in one form or another formore than a decade a bill setting nationwide standards to limitdamage awards to people harmed by faulty products as diverse asheart valves and tractors.Although its supporters have come tantalizingly close on severaloccasions only to see legislative agreements fall to pieces at thelast moment, they are unusually optimistic this time around.
Themain reason is that there is now apparent agreement among theprincipals: the White House; Sen. Slade Gorton of Washington, thechief Republican spokesman on the issue, and Sen. Jay Rockefeller,D-W.Va., who has made product liability almost a personal crusade.In fact, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott has told senators andreporters that he now believes the measure has sufficient supportand that he expects to bring it to the floor for a vote around July14.
The principal obstacle to the legislation has always been inthe Senate, and not the House, supporters of the bill agree.The issue pits an array of business interests who favor limitson court-approved damage awards against a coalition of consumergroups and trial lawyers and their influential trade organization.The nation's largest manufacturers have said that the bill to bevoted on next month does not go far enough and that they willoppose it.Whether to regulate damages in court cases is among the mostcomplex and often abstract of issues.
How should the United Statesstructure its civil litigation system to achieve maximum fairnessand accessibility?Supporters of the measure contend that the legislation is neededto put a cap on multimillion-dollar jury awards that are out ofcontrol and inhibit manufacturers and add to consumer costs.Opponents, like Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, aconsumer group in Washington, argue that by limiting awards forpunitive damages, which are typically given to express anger atreckless or outrageously negligent actions, there is littleincentive for manufacturers to stop making unsafe products.In addition to battles over the merits of the argument, thedebate is being fought with millions of dollars in campaigndonations and lobbying fees.
The trial lawyers are traditionalbenefactors of the Democrats, while the manufacturers are among themost generous sources of political donations for the Republicans.It would for the first time set national standards for productliability lawsuits, including preventing litigation againstretailers and wholesalers unless they had altered the product.It would also prohibit lawsuits for damages caused by durablegoods like machine tools or tractors that were more than 18 yearsold.The bill's limits on punitive damages have been narrowed fromthe original bill vetoed by Clinton, in which all companies wouldhave benefited.
Under the current version, limits on punitivedamages would apply only to companies with fewer than 25 employeesor with annual revenues of less than $5 million.
The limit on whatan injured person could collect would be $250,000 or twice theactual damages a person suffers, that is, lost wages and medicalexpenses.The business community had been united in support of theoriginal bill.
But when the punitive damages restriction waslimited to small businesses, the Civil Justice Reform Group,composed of such companies as Du Pont, General Motors and Exxon,recently wrote to Senator Lott saying it would not support thelegislation.Rockefeller said that with the majority of the Senate's 55Republicans supporting the bill along with about a dozen Democrats,he is hopeful that there would be at least the 60 votes needed tocut off any filibuster or extended debate.SAN FRANCISCO It's the longest 468 yards in golf, a par 4 formasochists.
The fairway climbs to a slick green guarded by deepbunkers and deep rough.
As if its uphill length were not formidableenough, it usually plays into a chill wind off the Pacific.This is the 17th hole in Olympic's three-hole theater (of theabsurd?)
where the 98th U.S. Open is very likely to be won and lostSunday.
It begins with the 609-yard marathon 16th.
It ends with the18th's 347-yard tunnel of trouble.Don't be surprised if this year's Open turns on the 17th hole,just as the 1987 Open turned there.Stewart's 3 was one of only eight birdies over the first tworounds on the 17th, this Open's most difficult hole.
Through 36holes, the average score there was 4.69 strokes, up from 4.56 in1987, when Scott Simpson's 10-foot par putt preserved hisone-stroke victory over Tom Watson.For the Olympic Club members, the 17th is a par 5 of 522 yardsfrom the championship tee.
But for the four Opens here, U.S. GolfAssociation officials have preferred to use shorter tees anddecreed it to be a par 4.In 1987's final round, Simpson had a one-stroke lead on Watsonwhen his second shot on the 17th drifted into the left bunker.
Whenhe blasted out to 10 feet, a bogey seemed to loom, but he holed thepar putt.
Watson, in the final group, had a par there, and Simpson,up ahead, had a par at 18.Needing a birdie to force an 18-hole playoff, Watson rapped a45-foot uphill putt that stopped inches short.Simpson had taken the lead with a 15-foot birdie putt on thedogleg-left 16th hole, which is playing at 609 yards in this Open.Over the first two rounds, nobody reached the 16th green in two,and over the history of Olympic, only two golfers have reached thegreen in two.In the 1920s, Bobby Jones once reached the 17th green in two,but in that era, the fairway was hard, and the cypress and pinetrees that now tower on the left had not been planted yet.
Lastyear an Olympic member, Michael Blewith, did it.In Ben Hogan's playoff with the virtual unknown Jack Fleck thatyear, he trailed by one stroke going to the treacherous tunnel ofthe 347-yard final hole.
After yanking his tee shot into the leftrough, he needed three slashes with his wedge to escape, thenneeded a 40-foot putt to save a double-bogey 6.In the final round in 1966, Arnold Palmer, who had aseven-stroke lead on Billy Casper with nine holes to play, stillhad a one-stroke lead on the 18th tee.
Palmer pulled a 1-iron intothe rough and wobbled to a bogey, creating an 18-hole playoff thatCasper won.And Sunday the leaders in this year's Open will be center stagein the theater of Olympic's 16th, 17th and 18th holes with thetrophy up for grabs.
The winner is most likely to be the golfer whokeeps his tee shots out of the rough.NEW ORLEANS Maurice Greene felt he was ready to break theworld record for the 100-meter dash.
His coaches said he was ready.His opponents said he was ready.Saturday night, the world champion gets a big chance.
Theoccasion is right the U.S. outdoor track and field championships.The heat and humidity provides good sprinting weather because hismuscles can get loose.
The opposition is expected to include suchworld-class sprinters as Dennis Mitchell, Tim Montgomery and BrianLewis.And Greene, like many other Americans, was not enamored with thefrequent breast-beating of Donovan Bailey, the Canadian who set therecord of 9.84 seconds in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.Friday night, the 23-year-old Greene moved toward his goal.
Inthe quarterfinals, he ran impressively and won in 9.84 seconds,helped by a following wind too strong to allow record recognition.In the semifinals 2 hours 20 minutes later, although he did notlook overly sharp, he still won cleanly in 9.96 seconds.Very good, according to two victims in that race.
One was30-year-old Kevin Little, a high-level sprinter for a decade.
Theother was 19-year-old Ja'Warren Hooker, a Washington freshman andone of America's sprint proteges.At least Little knew what to expect.
Hooker, who had never runagainst Greene before, faced him in the quarterfinals andsemifinals.Friday night's winners included John Godina in the men's discusthrow (220 feet 1 inch), Marc Davis in the men's 5,000 meters (13minutes 40.62 seconds) and Lynn Jennings in the women's 10,000meters (34:09.86).
For the 37-year-old Jennings, it was the seventhtitle in 12 years in this event and her 38th national titleoverall.
Victor Romagna, an outspoken force in America's Cup yacht racingfor a quarter of a century, died June 12 at his home in Annapolis,Md.
He was 80.Romagna sailed on the crew of three successful America's Cupdefense teams: the 12-Meter Columbia in 1958, Weatherly in 1962 andIntrepid in 1967.A sailboat efficiency expert, Romagna was instrumental inrearranging the layout of Intrepid for the 1967 cup races.
Theyacht's winches were moved below deck to reduce clutter, and thecockpit was moved forward to improve viewing.Romagna and Emil (Bus) Mosbacher Jr., who was Intrepid's skipperin 1967, led their United States America's Cup team to victoryagainst the Australian challenger, Dame Pattie, in a 4-0 sweep.During the cup races of 1980 and 1983, Romagna served assecretary of the America's Cup Selection Committee of the New YorkYacht Club, which was the guardian of the America's Cup for 132years.In 1983, when the club finally lost its ornate silver trophy toAustralia, Romagna was one of the first to concede that he hadmixed feelings about seeing it go.
He had become increasinglyagitated over the creeping commercialism in cup racing and bemoanedthe loss of amateurism in the sport.Romagna was born in Port Washington, N.Y., and lived there until1981, when he retired to Annapolis.
He learned to sail on ManhassetBay and competed on Long Island Sound during the 1940s in severalclasses of small boats.
When he was 17, he sailed in his firstNewport Bermuda Race.He competed in 22 Bermuda races, two trans-Atlantic competitionsand three British Fastnet Races.
He was inducted into the America'sCup Hall of Fame in 1994 and was an honorary trustee of the SouthStreet Seaport in New York.
He was sailing coach at the U.S. NavalAcademy from 1981 to 1989.Romagna served in the Coast Guard during World War II.
From 1960to 1981, he worked at Ivy Hill Corp. a printing firm, and was vicepresident of sales when he retired.He is survived by his wife, Louise; three daughters, LisaFrappaolo, of Port Washington, Marion Jones, of Catonsville, Md.,and Lenore Alexander, of Annapolis; a brother, Leonard, of Sun CityCenter, Fla., and four grandchildren.Federal officials, who were alerted to the study by an anonymouscomplaint, investigated whether the surgeons violated guidelinesgoverning informed consent in human experiments, but determinedthat they had no jurisdiction in the case.
The study was publishedin the journal Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery in December 1996,but has only recently been noticed outside the field.The study involved 20 women and a man, whose average age was 59,who went to Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital in 1992 and 1993for face lifts, for which they paid.
On one half of the face,surgeons cut the skin at the hairline and pulled it back and up.They pulled and tightened the underlying muscle, as if gatheringthe pleats of a skirt, but did not cut it.In the second, more aggressive procedure, other surgeons cutbeneath skin and tissue from the side of the face toward the nose,cut and pulled the underlying muscle back and upward, thenreattached it.
Some believe this procedure to be more effective inthe long run, but it also carries a higher chance that nerves willbe accidentally cut and the face partly paralyzed.The surgeons, who were seeking to resolve a 20-year debate aboutwhich procedure is more effective, say there is little if anynoticeable difference in the two sides of the patients' faces.
Butthe study checked the patients once, one year after the procedures,and other plastic surgeons say it may be years before it is knownwhether the patients' faces will show any irregularities.The crux of the ethical dispute is whether federal and staterules concerning medical experiments on humans applied to thisstudy.
Critics say that this was the case: that the surgeons shouldhave had the study approved in advance by their hospital's ethicscommittee, referred to by doctors as an institutional review board,or IRB.
The critics also contend that the doctors should have givenpatients consent forms explaining in detail the procedures andrisks they faced.The study's authors say that they did not seek committeeapproval or give detailed consent forms because neither wasnecessary.
Since the two procedures were well established, theysaid, the study was not a human experiment.
And so the patientswere asked to sign a general consent form given to all surgerypatients and were simply given an oral description of the study.The doctors who carried out the study agreed to contact somepatients for interviews, but ultimately, only one patient, speakingon condition of anonymity, talked to a reporter.She is a woman in her 70s who said she was pleased with the facelift she received from the doctors.
Asked if she was aware that shewas the subject of a study, she said she was the type of person whodoesn't want to know much about what's going to happen.The law suggests otherwise.
Under both federal and New Yorkstate law, a human experiment is defined simply as an investigationthat uses people's bodies and is not required for the directdiagnosis, prevention or treatment of a patient's condition.
Itdoes not matter whether the procedures being used are experimentalor not, according to federal health officials.Robert Hinkley, a spokesman for the New York state Department ofHealth, said the department was starting to look into the case.From an initial reading of the study, he said, it appears that theresearchers should have gone to an institutional review committeeand gotten formal written consent from the patients.
If the HealthDepartment determines that the doctors violated state law, theycould face unspecified sanctions.The federal watchdog agency that monitors human experiments, theOffice of Protection from Research Risks at the Department ofHealth and Human Services, was alerted to the study by an anonymousletter from New York, which said:The federal agency concluded that the study was indeed humanexperimentation, but that since no federal funds were used toconduct it, it had no jurisdiction to investigate further.Aston said the study proved that the more limited face-liftprocedure could do just as well.
Nevertheless, he still uses bothprocedures in his own practice, depending on the patient.Dr.
Sam Hamra is a plastic surgeon in Dallas who was a residentwith Aston at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital.
He saidhe declined an invitation to participate in the experiment, and hasbeen critical of the study, which he called highly unusual.Hamra reviewed the study at the time, and in an article thatappeared in the same issue in which the study was published, wrotethat the surgeons in the study failed to carry out the moreextensive surgical procedure properly.
That is why so littledifference between the two face halves was noted afterward, hesaid.He said that after conversations with Aston and others, hebelieved the patients were not fully briefed by the surgeons.Aston said that any criticism by Hamra was suspect because Hamrawas a champion of the more aggressive procedure in face lifts.Dr.
Joel Feldman of Harvard University said that he recalled thedebate over the study when it was first presented, and was at thetime supportive of the work.ALBANY, N.Y. Gov.
George Pataki began the year with a modestlist of things he wanted out of the Legislature: end parole forviolent felons, permit charter schools, allow casino gambling,toughen penalties for juvenile criminals.He got none of those.
But while the 1998 legislative session,which ended Friday, may look like a bust for the Republicangovernor, it gave him a few handy issues to use as he runs forre-election this year, particularly the time-worn theme thatDemocrats are soft on crime.He signaled as much in a news conference Friday afternoon inwhich he reviewed a session that was widely seen as one of theleast eventful in memory.
Pataki bemoaned the gridlock in theCapitol, and blamed the Democrats who control the Assembly.Pataki's political advisers calculated that there was not muchhe needed, politically, from this session, and they may have beenright.
Polls show him with huge leads over his Democratic rivals,and the governor seemed to spend more time this year touring thestate to promote his record than working in the Capitol to enhanceit.Even his allies in the Legislature say that except for theparole issue, he did not break a sweat this year lobbying for hisagenda.He can tell communities in western New York and the Catskillsthat see casinos as their best hope for economic development thathe tried, but he did not push the issue hard enough to raise theire of conservatives who oppose gambling.And he can tell minority communities that favor charter schoolsthat he fought their fight, only to be thwarted by the Assembly'stop Democrats, though the Republicans who control the Senate werein no hurry to go down that road, either.In a way, it was a year made for political posturing, and notjust because of the coming election.
In years past, lawmakers oftenhitched smaller issues to larger ones, giving them leverage to getmore things done.But this year, for the first time since Pataki was elected in1994, there were no momentous issues hanging over the lawmakers'heads, no budget crisis, no plan for deep cuts, no rent controlsready to expire, no deadline for welfare reform.
As legislatorsnoted repeatedly all year, there was nothing that, for either side,HAD to be done.In the final days of the session, there were a few notablepieces of legislation passed, including one requiring that peopleinfected with HIV be reported to the state Health Department andtheir sexual partners notified.
Lawmakers also agreed on a programof inspections and emissions-testing for heavy trucks and buses,something long sought by environmentalists.
And a deal was struckon the management of the new Hudson River park in Manhattan thatplaces some limits on development along the river.For the Assembly Democrats, especially Speaker Sheldon Silver,the session went much as it did for Pataki.
They, too, calculatedthat there was not much they needed, politically.
They, too,entered the year with a limited agenda, and in defeat foundelection-year ammunition.Pataki's broad budget vetoes in April denied the Democrats muchof what they wanted, including a $500 million increase in spendingon school construction and a tripling of spending on child care.Silver refused to negotiate with Pataki and Senate Majority LeaderJoseph Bruno on restoring some of the vetoed items, saying it wasall or nothing.From the start, the speaker made it clear that he would ratherhave the issue to use against Pataki than have a fraction of themoney back.
And as the session ended, Silver kept up his attacks onthe governor with an eye toward the November election.The Assembly Democrats called for steps to reduce New York'sauto insurance rates, knowing well that the Republicans wouldreject them.
Again, even before the session had ended, the defeathad become a campaign issue, as the Democrats running against thegovernor piggy-backed on the Assembly's plans and blamed Pataki forhigh premiums.It was telling that when asked what he considered the majorachievement of the session, Silver cited not a piece oflegislation, but a process: the negotiation of a budget throughpublic conference committees with the Senate, rather than inprivate talks.Somewhat obscured by the furor over the vetoes was theDemocrats' achievement of some of the things they wanted most thisyear, including a large increase in basic school aid, expansion ofthe state's health care program for poor children, and a processfor people to appeal when their health insurance companies denycoverage for certain treatments.The Assembly passed a criminal-justice package that included thegovernor's proposal to end parole, though it also included othermeasures that Pataki and the Senate refused to accept.
In the end,no law was enacted, but the Democrats can go home and tell votersthat they, too, voted to abolish parole.So attractive was that measure as a piece of political coverthat all the Republicans in the Assembly voted for it as well, forfear that they would be accused of opposing the anti-parolemeasure.Ms.
Merritt was born in Emporia, Va., but moved to Philadelphiawhile a toddler to be reared by an aunt and uncle after her motherdied.
Yearning for a career as an opera singer, she studied at theSettlement School of Music in Philadelphia, and at TempleUniversity and New York University.Later, Ms. Merritt toured as a backup singer for Harry Belafonteand Jackie Wilson and sang at Carnegie Hall in 1985 as part of theKool Jazz Festival and Salute to Cole Porter.Ms.
Merritt is survived by her husband of 52 years, BenjaminHines, and by four children, Norman, Benjamin Jr. and Denise, allof Hollis, and Dennis, of St. Louis.NEW YORK The city agency that has provided shelter and otherservices to tens of thousands of homeless New Yorkers is enteringan era of sharp retrenchment as the Giuliani administrationintensifies its efforts to take the city out of the business ofrunning shelters.In the spending plan that begins July 1, the Giulianiadministration will cut 1,000 positions from the Department ofHomeless Services roughly half of its staff over a year.
Thechanges are part of a broader effort to hand over the task ofrunning the city's homeless services to the private sector.And in about three weeks, the city intends to officially stopusing so-called welfare hotels as long-term shelters for homelessfamilies.
This change will end an ambitious effort, begun almosttwo decades ago, to shelter all who knocked at the municipal door.Much larger hotels once bulged with hundreds of poor people andcame to symbolize all that was wrong with the nation's policy onhousing the homeless.The city will also hand over five more shelters to the privatesector, reducing the number of shelters that it operates to 10 from15.
By the end of the next fiscal year it will run four sheltersfor single adults and six for families.
It used to operate most ofits 44 shelters for single adults.
Most of its 80 shelters forfamilies have already been turned over to private nonprofitorganizations.The shift in homeless services to private hands could be theturning point in negotiations over whether to keep thefive-year-old Department of Homeless Services.
The agency, whichcomes up for renewal every three years, is scheduled to dissolveJune 30 if an agreement cannot be reached.Both Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and City Council Speaker PeterVallone support measures to make the agency permanent, but theydisagree on several issues, including the cutbacks at the agencyand conditions at the Emergency Assistance Unit, the office in theBronx where homeless families are screened and referred toshelters.Stephen DiBrienza, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of theCouncil's general welfare committee, which oversees the agency,says he is concerned that reducing the agency's staff will rob thehomeless of essential services.
Among the employees to beeliminated are case management workers who counsel and nursefamilies in the hotels.
The other positions include workers whoserve food and do the dishes and laundry.
The city plans to offerthose jobs to private agencies, officials said.Gordon Campbell, the commissioner of the Department of HomelessServices, said that in about three weeks, the city will no longeruse the hotels to house families beyond the 10 days that it takesofficials to determine whether a family has absolutely no place togo besides a shelter.
That change will diminish the need for thecase management workers at the hotels, he said.
In 1993, the cityhad contracts with 22 such hotels, and now it has 10, he said.Under city law, New York is allowed to put homeless families incommercial hotels for up to 60 days while they seek permanenthousing.
For stays beyond 60 days, the law requires that the hotelsbe no larger than 100 units and have kitchens in each unit.
SinceDecember 1996, the city has not used hotels that do not comply,Campbell said.Friday, DiBrienza was working on a compromise that he planned tosubmit to his committee for a vote Monday and to the full Councilon Wednesday.
If the Council moves forward on a bill without a nodfrom the administration, the measure could languish inadministrative limbo for months, resulting in the dissolution ofthe agency.The Department of Homeless Services has been given high marks byhomeless advocates for improving services for poor people andfinding permanent housing for the homeless.
But even supportershave criticized the agency's tough eligibility standards and itsuse of hotels and the Emergency Assistance Unit to provideemergency shelter for homeless families.The Emergency Assistance Unit was never intended to providetemporary shelter, but for years families have stayed there formore than one night while waiting to be placed in other quarters,becoming the focal point of a long-running court battle between thecity and homeless advocates.
As a condition of making the agencypermanent, DiBrienza has insisted that the unit be equipped withcots and cribs for families waiting to be placed.But Campbell said that over the past eight months, the agencyhas been able to place families in shelters within 20 hours andtherefore has no need for cots and cribs.Steven Banks, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's HomelessFamily Rights Project, called the Emergency Assistance Unit a defacto barracks-style shelter for children and their families.He is one of a handful of advocates who argue the Department ofHomeless Services, created with workers from the city's HumanResources Administration, should be dismantled, saying it hasfailed in its mission to move people out of the system and intopermanent housing.About 5,000 families, including about 7,000 children, and about7,000 single adults stay in shelters in the city on any givennight, officials said.Union leaders also give the agency low marks, saying they neversupported its creation because they knew it would mean a loss ofjobs for city employees.
In 1994, the agency had 3,000 workers; nowit it has 2,170.
In addition, the Giuliani administration plans cutthe agency's budget by $20 million to $370 million.The city has been contracting with nonprofit groups to take overshelters and services for the homeless since the 1980s.WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast ofhundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await PresidentClinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road cityof Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling sincelast winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detailof a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 yearsof Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation'sfuture.For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tourlie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, eventconsultations and back-room skull sessions .
It's all the work of atemporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, securityagents, communications experts, transportation specialists,physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent monthsto plan the presidential trip to China.There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to beworked out, starting with the basic question of just how should theLeader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away fromthe office?Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the officealong in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magiccarpet.
It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300an hour - not including the crew of 26 - can move the essentialfunctions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue tovirtually anywhere else on the planet.In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow AirForce One on the trip as a standby.In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have hisown physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room'sworth of medical gear and supplies.The president will take along his own car, too - an armoredblack limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet,along with a pair of sport utility vehicles used by the U.S. SecretService agents who protect the president.
He will also take his ownprivate telephone company - banks of switching and transmissiongear must be transported and set up days ahead of time for eachstop he'll make - so that the president can talk with internationalleaders or key U.S. officials anywhere around the world withoutworrying that someone else might be listening.Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president willalso take along enough personnel to staff a good-sized corporation.In addition to hundreds of presidential assistants, Secretary ofState Madeleine Albright, Secretary of Treasury Robert Rubin andNational Security Adviser Samuel Berger will be along with keymembers of their staffs in tow.Scores of other administration officials with expertise ineverything from trade and environmental matters to arms control andinternational law will also be along on the trip, many of themtraveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.It isn't yet clear how large the presidential entourage to Chinawill be, but some 800 people went along with him to Africa lastspring, in addition to 200 journalists and media technicians.The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller - thoughthe press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa -largely because many of the American corporations that sentexecutives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agentssometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-beassailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensivesecurity effort.When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of CapeTown in South Africa last March, for instance, local securityagents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,canvassed the city welding shut manhole covers along possibleroutes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenueof attack and also sending out the message that a tight securitynet had been cast across the seaside city.Secret Service agents typically inspect the sites ofpresidential visits weeks in advance, often using a video camera torecord every place and path on the presidential journey.
Then theyscrutinize the tape to make sure that every building air duct, dooror hallway has been secured against possible assassins or bombers.Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theatre, scripted,directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identifiedby the White House.Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try toredefine American impressions and to show that his policy ofengaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,is helping to foster change.With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to doin China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristicof hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast countrythat are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-runeconomy.Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, inconcert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from thedepths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unityand achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vastpotential for the future.Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit - the terra-cottawarriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stockexchange in Shanghai - there are dozens more his advance teamconsidered, surveyed and later rejected.Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control anine-day tour through the world's most populous country.
The bestlaid plans, indeed, can go awry.When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop inGhana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a millionpeople turned out to listen to him speak.
At one point, the crowdsurged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence.
Filmfootage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move backdominated television coverage of the day's events, to theconsternation of White House spin doctors.It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who haveinsisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in frontof the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's LiberationArmy beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutallycrushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House messageshop might dream up.
The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advanceteam.NEW YORK Like pilgrims at a sacred site, Dot Garabrant and herfriend Sadie Ciganeck stood outside the Lower East Side TenementMuseum on Orchard Street, pointing to a collage of old-timepictures of women in long dresses and fancy hats.
The two had justfinished reading a novel about old New York something about awoman who hailed from a line of healers.
They had read the book.Now it was time to do the city.One hundred years after what was most likely an ordinary day inthe newly consolidated city, New York is marking its birthday thisweekend with scores of events across town.
Unlike the big bashes ofpast years the Bicentennial with its flotilla of elegant tallships, or the Statue of Liberty's century celebration with itsdazzling and deafening blast of fireworks in the harbor thisbirthday was low-key and spread out.The actual anniversary of the city's consolidation was on NewYear's Day, but organizers thought the summer's first weekend wouldprovide a natural opportunity to herald both history and warmweather by piggybacking onto the many events that always take placethis time of year.Marie Salerno, the president of NYC 100, which has organized ayearlong series of events to mark the consolidation of the fiveboroughs into Greater New York, said this weekend's idea was topromote local pride.
And if the neighborhood groups brought thecake, she said, her group would light the candles with asimultaneous five-borough fireworks show.The weekend's theme had caught the fancy of Rafael Bueno, apoet, philosopher and prime mover behind the gallery and itsadjacent community garden.
Wearing tails and a ruffled shirt, hewas scruffily formal for a show at the gallery, an officialCentennial event.
In the garden, he walked under a leafy canopy ofgrape vines he wants to bottle the first Bronx vintage, he said.He would also like to see the borough become to Latin Americans andindigenous people what Harlem is for African Americans.In Queens, history was on the march.
So was science, home repairand even Danielle Steel, as library workers carried boxes of booksfrom the old public library to the new Flushing branch Saturdaymorning.
Most people lining the eight-block parade route wereunaware of any real connection to the city's centennial.
This wasjust their chance to celebrate their own neighborhood, whichsometimes feels like a stepchild.The neighborhood, like its library, has grown over the years,and both reflect the rich mix of people who have come to call thisplace home.
The library collection includes items in 30 languages.Videotapes and best-selling novels are the big favorites, althoughJoanna Almeda said she thought of finding a book about how Queensand Manhattan were united.Which is not how some folks feel in Staten Island, where asecessionist sentiment still smolders.
Linda Gregori, 53, thinksthey never should have built the Verrazano Narrows Bridge, whichhas joined her island to Brooklyn since 1964, never mind whathappened in 1898.
It brought too much traffic, people and crime.A century ago, that was the fear of Brooklynites who resistedthe city's consolidation amid fears that their bucolic town's charmwould vanish forever.She had come early to the park to enjoy some peace and quiet.The whir of cars zipping overhead on the bridges provided a lullingcomfort.
She is also at ease with the idea that Brooklyn prosperedafter joining the city.She planned to go to Manhattan later in the day to see whatbirthday events she would run into.
She had already celebrated inher own way on Friday.Nearby, a parks worker watered a lawn with a view of spans andskyscrapers.
On a shaded cobblestone walk, a fashion photographerclicked away at a model who kept a cool expression while wearing awinter coat and scarf.Waves of weary and hopeful immigrants arrived in this city to dojust that.
Dave Creary, whose mother brought him from Jamaica whenhe was 6, was amazed at the variety of people who have settled inthe city.On Friday afternoon, he was high on his neighborhood leaningover a balcony at the Panorama of New York City, a scale model ofthe five boroughs inside the Queens Museum.
He was searching forhis Queens Village house, which was somewhere between KennedyAirport and the rows of identical homes.
The city was laid outbefore him: the cluster of red-brick buildings near the sands ofConey Island, the tiny bridges stitching together the metropolis,and the thicket of towers crammed into Manhattan.Like most New Yorkers, he had driven past the museum withoutever having gone inside.
He was too busy working, until his uncle,who was visiting from London, talked him into a day trip.
Crearylooked at the model city, awed by its size.
To him, however, urbanprogress was measured not by soaring towers but by much smallerdetails.On Orchard Street, the restoration went back a bit further asthe road was paved with cobblestones.
On Saturday morning, LarryShapiro and his wife, Patricia Sousa, turned the corner from BroomeStreet hoping to see the other vintage sights on the CentennialBlock.
But the gates of most stores were still down, and some wouldnot go up at all, since the Jewish shopkeepers would be observingthe Sabbath.Still, they had come to the street to pay their respects totradition and heritage on the Lower East Side.
The faces hadchanged, but some things were the same.The title of top driver in the rough-edged world of stock carracing has always carried with it an additional designation:target.Win too often and there will be as many fans hating you asloving you.
There will be drivers who will not hesitate to run youinto a wall and others who might even cheat to keep you fromwinning a race.Over the years, in a sport where loyalty to individual driverspossesses a certain cult quality, Dale Earnhardt has played therole of champion and villain, as have Bill Elliott and DarrellWaltrip.Jeff Gordon, who who is the pole-sitter for the Pocono 500 onSunday, is the latest driver to live out this weird dual existence the best and the booed.Gordon's accomplishments on the track two NASCAR championshipsin the last three years, 32 career triumphs are unmatched.
Hisearnings are unrivaled.
And so his detractors are legion.
Notsurprisingly, then, his misfortunes also now tend to be colored byintrigue.Two weeks ago, Gordon was leading a race in Richmond when he wascrashed into from behind and was unable to finish the race, much tothe delight of the fans who stood and cheered wildly as Gordon'ssmoking car skidded to a stop.A week ago, he raced to a nearly insurmountable lead at theMichigan Speedway when a driver tossed something out his window andonto the track, forcing a caution and costing Gordon his lead and,ultimately, the race.Is it a coincidence?
Maybe.
Is it the result of a design drivenby dislike or jealousy?
Maybe.Indeed, it is not unreasonable to wonder if anyone has ever feltthe sting of being a hated virtuoso more acutely than Gordon.
In asport that began as recreation for moonshiners running liquoracross the South, Gordon stands out as unusual.Gordon's resume is not standard issue.
He is a middle-class kidfrom California who moved to Indiana as a teen-ager.
He is 26 yearsold and never really had to pay the dues that other drivers did(Earnhardt didn't start driving on the NASCAR circuit until he was28).
He is glib and does not speak with an accent, whereas many ofthe drivers have a Southern drawl.
He has the face and personalityof a Boy Scout, rather than a roughneck.And perhaps most important, Gordon has ascended to the top ofthe racing world just as the sport has begun to expand its reachand reap greater economic reward finding popularity among awider, wealthier population, acquiring an appeal as a marketingengine for nontraditional sponsors and paying its championsmillions instead of thousands.Gordon is the face of that expanding NASCAR universe.
With awife who pins scripture verses to his dashboard, Gordon is thesport's singular talent and greatest marketing vehicle.
Last yearhe made $6.5 million in endorsements, promoting, among otherthings, milk and toothpaste.Gordon began racing on Go-Kart tracks in Vallejo, Calif., whenhe was 5 years old.
He immediately showed exceptional ability andan intense drive to win.
When he was 13, Gordon's stepfather, JohnBickford, an auto-parts manufacturer, moved the family to Indiana,where Gordon had the chance to race professionally as a teen-ager.After years of dominating the Indiana dirt tracks, at therelatively young age of 21, Gordon made the jump to NASCAR.For Gordon, who is credited with an otherworldly kind ofaggressive precision as a driver, the timing of his arrival wasperfect.
He entered NASCAR as it was beginning to establish itselfas a mainstream sport.
At the time, NASCAR was expanding itsschedule and its national television deal with major and cablenetworks was relatively new.
Also, several new race tracks werebeing built.Attendance at NASCAR events leaped 60 percent from 1990 to 1995,and its purses now can exceed $5 million for a single race.NASCAR's marketing staff, too, has got much savvier about sellingthe sport, a development that has led to the establishment of themerestaurants and merchandising outlets in malls across the country.Gordon, riding the front of the sport's new wave, won eightraces in 1995, his second full year, and 10 more in 1996.Last year, he became only the second driver to win the $1million bonus awarded to any racer who wins three of NASCAR's mostprestigious events.In defense of their heroes, Gordon's army of detractors hasmounted an array of assaults: anti-Jeff Gordon T-shirts and signsthat carry similar messages.
Internet home pages such as NASCARFans Against Jeff Gordon (there were 10 such home pages at lastcount) carry caricatures and musings that run from the profane tothe absurd to the silly.While Gordon has his own sizable following he boasts a fanclub of more than 20,000 members there seem to be many more fanswho find satisfaction in rooting against him.
Like the drivers,they, too, are frustrated by Gordon's weekly dominance.
And when hewas passed last week in Michigan, the fans roared as loudly as thefans at Richmond after his wreck there.In the 1970s, Waltrip was a brash young driver who openlychallenged anyone to beat him.
In the 1980s and early 1990s, it wasEarnhardt and Elliott's quick rise to prominence that led toresentment.
But however much people disliked their steady success,the drivers were always considered authentic members of racing'srowdy fraternity.
And no one then was making the kind of moneyGordon is now: he has earned roughly $15 million in purses in hiscareer, slightly more than $1 million this year alone.Gordon said the boos are part of the high price of success.
As,too, are the tactics of the other drivers.
Gordon, who stops shortof accusing other drivers of willfully trying to harm him or hischances, does note that other drivers, even when it might be totheir advantage, almost never join him in the draft.Predictably, Gordon's quick rise to the top of the sport hasprovoked a regular swirl of rumors around the garages, from theoutrageous to the comic: his tires are pressure-coated with amicroscopically ground titanium dust; his car uses rocket fuel; heand NASCAR officials have conspired to script how the racing seasonwould unfold, with Gordon winning his third championship indramatic fashion in the fall.Gordon said there is no credence to the rumors.
But he can sortof understand the ones about his car.
For one thing, it is almostalways the fastest.
Another is that his team was caught withillegal hubs a few years ago.If people don't like him because of his success, Gordon said, hecan live with that.
If they don't like him because of who he is,well, he will find a way to live with that, too.WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. Kathleen Devigne moved here 15 years agofrom the Bronx, where her fear of crime had kept her close to home.In this bustling downtown of wide sidewalks and plentiful shops,she found an ideal blend of city convenience and suburban peace ofmind.But now Mrs. Devigne, an 83-year-old widow who never learned todrive, says she is facing a new threat to her independence: theclosing of the last neighborhood supermarket.But to the store's customers, many of them elderly women likeMrs.
Devigne who do not drive and depend on stores within walkingdistance, the store's closing meant the loss of one more bit offreedom.Though Mrs. Devigne (pronounced de-VEEN) broke two wrists in afall last year, she is healthy and now plans to walk a littlefarther to shop at the Food Emporium a mile from her home.White Plains has long been a destination for many elderly Bronxresidents who wanted to live in what they considered to be a saferplace where driving a car was not a necessity, said White PlainsPlanning Commissioner Michael Graessle.
The city is the seat ofWestchester County government and home to two big malls, theWestchester and the Galleria.
Shoppers and workers make the city'spopulation swell to an average of 250,000 during the day, butaccording to the 1990 census, only 48,718 people live in WhitePlains.
More than 20 percent, or 10,147, are 60 or older, and 3,139are widowed, Graessle said.That percentage of people 60 or older compares with 16.8 percentof the population nationally and 17.7 percent statewide.In downtown White Plains, the percentage of elderly residents iseven higher, with about 22 percent of the 11,392 residents 60 yearsold or older.The AP's closing has led some elderly White Plains residents tourge city officials to lure another supermarket to buy the space.The AP has put its building up for sale, though store officialsdeclined to reveal the asking price.
George Gretsas, the executiveofficer of White Plains, said that the asking price was $4 million,far more than the $1.5 million that the city's assessors hadestimated the building was worth and too inflated a price foranother supermarket.Before the AP closed, a CVS drug store, a Woolworth's, a bankand a couple of delicatessens, all within four blocks of oneanother, had closed during the past year.
Macy's led off thedowntown's decline two years ago, when it shut its Main Streetstore after 47 years and moved into the nearby Galleria Mall.Some of the stores closed to make way for a 24-screen movietheater and retail complex that is supposed to be the centerpieceof a plan to revitalize downtown White Plains.
That complex doesnot include a supermarket, however.Politicians and store owners have scrambled to insure that noone is left without access to food.
The AP began a free shuttlebus from its closed store to the Food Emporium, which it also owns,twice a week from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., said Andrew Carrano, AP'svice president for marketing and corporate affairs.In addition, Stop and Shop, another supermarket, is running ashuttle twice a week along North Broadway, White Plains' leafyversion of the Grand Concourse.
It takes customers to the store inNorth White Plains, where the bus will wait for an hour before thereturn trip, Mayor Joseph Delfino said in a letter he sent to 3,500residents of the downtown neighborhood.NEW YORK Larry Douglas, if that really was his name, had beena fixture in local politics for years.
But at his funeral lastweek, only about two dozen people showed up to pay their respects.And some of them joked that they went just to make sure he wasreally dead.Not out of malice, but because Douglas had a penchant fortelling tall tales, especially of the political sort.
While he haddeveloped a reputation as a brilliant political consultant in the1980s, he also became widely known as someone who had a lot oftrouble sticking to the truth.He had been involved in mayoral and presidential elections andwas described by friends as an eloquent and well-connectedpolitical analyst.
But he also had a habit of disappearing foryears at a time once, his friends said, he fled to Israel toavoid federal tax-evasion charges.When he died on June 12 at Coney Island Hospital, he had beenliving under an assumed name, Zachary Phillips, in a tiny apartmentin Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, for nearly two years.
Most of thepeople he had clinked glasses with at political gatherings andplotted campaign strategies with did not even know he was in thecity.Kenneth Fisher, a city councilman from Brooklyn, who helpedidentify Douglas' body at the funeral home last week, said Douglasapparently had not worked at all in the last two years and died inpoverty.
He said the mourners at Douglas' funeral a variety ofpoliticians, political consultants and reporters took up acollection to help pay for the funeral.Fisher, who said Douglas had been living with a girlfriend namedAlice in Brighton Beach, said Douglas made up the name ZacharyPhillips because he wanted to live in anonymity.
But otheracquaintances at the funeral said they believed that although thename was purely concocted, Phillips was his real last name.Douglas ran Fisher's first campaign for City Council in 1991.
Hecoordinated hundreds of volunteers for Mayor Edward Koch's 1981re-election campaign and Mayor David Dinkins' campaign in 1989.
Healso helped run Vice President Al Gore's 1988 bid for theDemocratic presidential nomination.
He advised dozens ofcongressional, judicial and City Council campaigns into the early1990s.But people in political circles had started to question hiscredibility as early as 1981.NEW YORK A young woman whose body was found floating in theEast River 14 years ago is believed to have been killed by a couplewho were angered when she refused to work for them as a prostitute,police said Saturday.The couple, Arthur and Donna Kinlaw, were charged on Friday withthe murder of the woman, who was never identified, police said.
Lt.Steven Boldis, commanding officer of the Bronx Cold Case Squad,said the Kinlaws ran a prostitution ring in the Hunts Point sectionof the Bronx until fleeing New York more than a decade ago, when hesaid they set out on a life of robbery, prostitution, burglary,forgery and welfare fraud that spanned seven states.
They werearrested while in jail in El Centro, Calif., where they wereserving an eight-month sentence for welfare fraud, Boldis said.The woman was discovered in the East River off Hunts Point onMay 3, 1984.
Police said that when she was pulled from the water,the short, black-haired woman was wearing a ripped blouse and bluejeans, and appeared to have been bludgeoned and suffocated.
Herhands had been tied behind her back with scraps from her blouse,and other sections were found stuffed down her throat, said Sgt.Nick Vreeland, a police spokesman.There were few clues, and the case was soon closed.
But inApril, welfare fraud investigators in California told investigatorsin New York that a woman whose name was being used as an alias byMrs.
Kinslaw said she had information about a murder, police said.The informer said that the dead woman's first name was Linda,that she was likely of Italian-American origin and may have livedwith her grandmother in either Brentwood or Bay Shore on LongIsland, police said.
Detectives narrowed down the possible victimsto the body found in the East River in 1984.With that statement and other evidence later gleaned bydetectives, the police concluded that Kinlaw, 46, and his39-year-old wife met the woman at a club called Blackberry Jam inBay Shore sometime in 1984.
There, the Kinlaws, who have ninechildren from their 20-year marriage, apparently befriended thewoman and then tried to convince her to become a prostitute in theHunts Point area, police said.
They added that the couple had beenknown in the area as running a prostitution ring at the time.After several days of resisting their offer, the womanthreatened to go to police, according to detectives.
The couplethen beat and suffocated her, later taking her body to Hunts Pointand dumping it in the river, police said.WIMBLEDON, England Uneasy lies the head that doesn't wear thiscrown: from crass teen-agers to cranky veterans, everybody'sclamoring to be the queen of Wimbledon this year.Continuing a tradition that began, to some degree, here atWimbledon when the 15-year-old Lottie Dodd won the title in 1887,women's tennis has become the proving ground of a bevy of teen-agecelebrities.
Each of them is intent on looking and playing like noone else in the world, especially their precursors, and each ofthem is already famous regardless of whether she has actually won atournament.The undisputed monarch of the bunch is a 17-year-old Swiss girlwho just recently began falling for boys instead of horses.
WillMartina Hingis put business before pleasure and defend in 1998 thesecond of the three Grand Slam titles she monopolized in 1997?There are 127 others, including five of Hingis' teen-agecompatriots among the top 30 players in the world, hoping shewon't.Although Hingis admits she fears being beaten by herunderstudies far more than she frets about facing her elders, Grafis one veteran whose designs on the 1998 Wimbledon title are allthe more passionate because she recognizes that this could be herlast campaign on these lawns.
Also, Graf is the only player,veteran or not, to own a 5-1 record against Hingis that includestwo victories at this Grand Slam event.
If Hingis and Graf, aseven-time champion, weather the seven-round collision course, theywould meet in the final.It would not exactly be a clash of innocence and experience.These days tennis breeds millionaires, not innocents.
Moreintriguingly, it would be a clash of now meets then, of Hingis'slick all-court calculations against Graf's stubborn baselinepower.Graf, the 29-year-old German who was ousted from her perch atopthe ranking 15 months ago by Hingis, has accumulated nearly as manysurgeries as Grand Slam titles she holds 21 but she refuses tosurrender her sport to the youngsters.
This spring Graf swore shewould retire if she encountered one more physical setback.
Instead,straight from cursing out every official who worked the linesduring her petulant loss to Kournikova at Eastbourne on Wednesday,she is here, steeling herself to outlast the competition and seededfourth on the strength of her past laurels despite an actualrank of 91st.Another Grand Slam champion on the rebound is Monica Seles, the24-year-old Yugoslav-turned-Floridian who made a rousing sprint tothe French Open final.
That Seles counts no Wimbledon titles amongher collection of nine Grand Slam victories makes her bid almost asurgent, and equally sentimental, as Graf's.These are two outspoken generations of women's tennis mergingjust in time for Wimbledon.
With the possible exception of Venusand Serena Williams, siblings who have already announced a dualplot to dethrone the Swiss incumbent, the sisters who belong tothis sorority are anything but sweet and sisterly toward oneanother.Blithely self-aggrandizing is more like it, and that's makingfor some scintillating feuds and rivalries, along with a potboileratmosphere: Hingis called Graf and her contemporaries a bunch ofpast-their-prime players; Serena Williams slammed a ball at SanchezVicario at Roland Garros and laughed it off; Kournikova has made itclear that she doesn't just preen better than the rest, she wantsto play better, too.It wasn't so long ago that Hingis was just a 14-year-oldWimbledon wannabe who took one horrified look at the identity ofher first-round opponent in 1995, the top-ranked Graf, and decidedthat maybe she didn't really want to go to Wimbledon after all.Back then, Graf practically held the mortgage on Wimbledon andevery other Grand Slam.
Not anymore.
Hingis, a first-round victimto the Graf in 1995, grew up and grew bold.And now nobody is intimidated by anybody and everybody is usingvengeance as a motivator.
The old ones want to teach the young onesa lesson, and the young ones want to vanquish the old ones.
Everyplayer wants what Hingis has: the self-esteem that accompanies thisWimbledon trophy.
SHANGHAI, China Rebuffing international pressure tocompromise, Chinese authorities instead chose to escalate theirdispute with the director of a classic Chinese opera that isscheduled to open in New York City next month as the centerpiece ofthe Lincoln Center Festival.The authorities, insisting that the world see a version thatChinese officials are used to, have required extensive revisions tothe opera's script.
Last week, they blocked shipment of theproduction's sets, props and costumes, now all stuck at ShanghaiInternational Airport.
They defended that move by saying the itemswill be needed as the opera is revised.Raymond Burghardt, U.S. consul general in Shanghai, said he hadurged the Shanghai authorities to allow the production's shipmentto proceed to New York on Sunday, and expressed the hope that thedispute could be resolved in time for the opening on July 7.Chen, saying he was distressed by the thought that theproduction might be foiled, stressed that he was willing to makeminor adjustments to his production in order to compromise with theauthorities.
But he is not willing to completely restage the show,as the officials are now demanding.In principle, the Shanghai Bureau of Culture might have littlesay over a production to be staged in the United States, and fundedby the Lincoln Center Festival.In practice, Communist Party bureaucrats have wielded decisivecontrol over artistic matters for years and are reluctant to giveit up.
Many movie directors, authors and actors in China know aboutinterference by officials at the Ministry of Culture, still aredoubt of ultraconservative officials.Chen, a native of China who moved to the United States in 1987,said he was warned by friends that the typical method of staging ashow in China includes inviting political leaders to a rehearsaland making whatever changes they ask for, large or small, even ifthe politicians understand nothing of opera.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.YANKS-LEDE Two of the most eccentric owners in baseball willgo at each other again, when Ted Turner's Braves and Georgesteinbrenner's Yankees meet this week during a 4-game series.Baseball people talk about both owners, their highs/lows and whatthey have meant to the game.
(Rosenberg, AtlantaJournal-Constitution).YANKS-COLUMN All baseball eyes turn to series between Bravesand Yankees this week because it's about the best baseball has tooffer until playoffs.
(Hummer, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).SHOOTING Feature from the National Shooting Championships atWolf Creek Olympic Shooting Complex near Atlanta.
Luke Shank, 18,is a Navy shooter from Indiana who competes in air riflecompetition on Monday.
He placed fourth at the junior nationalslast year and has overcome an eye injury that caused him to have toswitch the eye he used to sight with.
(Rosen, AtlantaJournal-Constitution).NEW YORK Down a cascade of steel steps in the half-basementChinese video store in Elmhurst, Queens, Shi Jiehua methodicallyglued labels onto black plastic cases one recent afternoon as aChinese soap opera murmured on a small television.This shoe box of a store has become a gathering place for someof the greatest Chinese opera stars part of a growing diaspora ofopera performers who have come to the United States from China,often initially to perform, but then to stay.They come seeking freedom for themselves and opportunity fortheir children.
But unlike many artists from Western countrieswhose celebrity follows them here, the performers from China findthemselves plunged into the austere world of new Chineseimmigrants, a world of menial jobs, Spartan housing and littlecontact beyond the immigrant community.For many Chinese, the sight of Shi Jiehua shelving videotapes orCai Qingling delivering takeout food is akin to the notion ofLuciano Pavarotti scrubbing pots at a pasta joint in Little Italy.But virtually no Chinese opera star in this country can survive onperforming and teaching alone.Still, in the last 10 years, a network of opera societies,workshops and private patrons has evolved in cities across theUnited States, especially in New York.
Amateur opera buffs canstudy with master teachers.
Legendary singers from Shanghai, hereat the invitation of local Chinese arts centers, spend afternoonsmingling with opera greats who have immigrated.
One group scoursChina for talented performers, trying to lure them to live in theUnited States.Some wealthy Chinese here, evoking the practice in the late MingDynasty of having individual opera troupes attached to greathouseholds, even sponsor stars from China to come and sing for themand their friends in intimate gatherings.Year after year, opera stars from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhouand dozens of other cities across China filter into the UnitedStates, some through performing-artist visas, others throughdefecting from visiting opera companies.
So great is the influx oftalent that, unlike anywhere in China, New York regularly hasperformances of China's four major opera traditions by stars of thefirst magnitude.In Flushing, Queens, Agnes Ho and her husband, Steve, haveturned their red-brick house into a nerve center of Chinese opera.A dining table is heaped with immigration documents for operasingers, grant applications to federal and state arts agencies,invitations to opera troupes in China.
A basement walled in mirrorsserves as a practice room.From here, Mrs. Ho, 61, runs the Tung Ching Chinese Center forthe Arts, a nonprofit group that has sponsored more than 50 operastars to come to live in the United States.Behind the brick house, Mrs. Ho and one of her boarders, a newlyarrived opera performer named Xie Dong, opened a shed filled withcostumes and props.
Silk and satin robes, densely layered with goldand silver embroidery, sat on shelves carefully labeled with thenames of individual operas.
A steamer trunk overflowed with swordsin elaborate scabbards.
Mrs. Ho bought the collection, which shethinks may be the largest of its kind, with money she earned hereas an insurance agent.Last year, a 40-member opera troupe from the northern Chinesecity of Shenyang went to Berkeley, Calif., to perform.
Three of theleading performers, all award winners in China, fled the troupe andsought help from Mrs. Ho.
All three now live in Queens, around thecorner from the Hos' house.Not far away, on two Saturdays each month, the annex of St.George's Episcopal church in Flushing echoes with the wail of thekundi, the bamboo flute that is at the center of kunqu (pronouncedKUN-CHEW) opera.
Slumped in a leather armchair one recent Saturday,Chen waited for his students at the Kunqu Society workshop.On that day, 20 members of Shanghai's most prominent operatroupe were in Los Angeles to perform; as pictures of the massacrefilled television screens at the troupe's hotel, eight of themsought asylum.
Nearly all of them are now in New York.The workshop in Flushing offers six hours of courses embracingthe elements of kunqu opera first flute, then singing, followedby movement and acting and concluding with percussion and allclasses are led by kunqu masters who learned their art in China.All four principal genres of Chinese opera can be seen in NewYork: Cantonese yue, popular in Hong Kong and Guangdong province;Beijing, now known as the national opera form; Shanghai yue, heardpredominantly in central China, and kunqu, the most prized amongmany cognoscenti.At the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19thcentury, kunqu was gradually displaced by the less sophisticatedBeijing opera, which embraced showy acrobatic and martial scenesthat proved more popular to less literate audiences.
Today, Beijingopera receives the most government support in China.Earlier this month, Ms. Shi returned from an opera tour inAustria.
While she was gone, Cai and Chen performed at a gala operawith two visiting stars from Shanghai before several hundred kunquaficionados at the Taipei Theater, on the Avenue of the Americas at49th Street in Manhattan.ORLANDO, Fla. With record high temperatures and a prolongeddrought, Florida has been struck by at least 137 wildfires that injust the last three weeks have burned more than 49,000 acres in 34counties and injured at least 14 people.With the situation worsening, President Clinton declared theentire state a disaster area on Friday, opening the door foremergency assistance.
The declaration, which had originally appliedto only eight counties in the hardest hit areas, in northern andcentral Florida, enables fire victims to seek low-cost federal aid.At least 137 fires in 34 of Florida's 67 counties since May 25have caused an estimated $13 million in losses statewide.Earlier in the week, a fire forced the evacuation of 1,100people from Waldo, near Gainesville in northern Florida.
But byFriday evening, cars were returning to Waldo under clear skies anda lingering smell of smoke.Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDTMonday-Friday.
Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.EDT Monday-Friday.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404 526-5456.CLINTON-TRIP When he visits China beginning next week,virtually everything President Clinton does every step he takes,every place he goes, every bite he eats will have beenchoreographed weeks in advance by a horde of advance men and womenwho will have scheduled every second of his trip.
After spendinghours studying videotapes of the routes Clinton will take, SecretService agents will have ensured that manhole covers are sealed andair ducts blocked to prevent potential assassins from plantingbombs.
His armor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead.Hotels will have been comandeered for the president and hisentourage.
Detailed briefing books will have been prepared for him,providing classified information on the ranking officials with whomhe will meet.
Phone banks will have been put in place for thetraveling White House press.
Sophisticated electronics gear willhave been installed so the media can beam images back to the UnitedStates.
In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked aroundthe clock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to makesure the whole thing goes off without a hitch.
(Deans, Cox NewsService).IRAN-SOCCER TEHRAN, Iran The U.S. plays Iran in the WorldCup soccer tournament Sunday.
Except when Iraq is in crisis, Iranis probably the biggest story in the Middle East right now.
Therewere huge street celebrations when Iran qualified for thetournament.
People said they bordered on political outbursts, andthere was concern among Iran's Islamic fundamentalist rulers whenmany women celebrants removed their head coverings in violation ofreligious dictates.
Many other Iranians hope the match will lead toa normalization of relations between the United States and Iranafter two decades of hostility.
(Kaplow, Cox News Service).LINDER As the GOP's once-certain hold on the House majorityappears to be slipping somewhat, the man in the middle is NRCCchairman John Linder.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).NORLEANS New Orleans First it was the mardi gras pay-to-ridefloat, then the death of the KB drug stores to Rite Aid.
NowStarbucks is about to come in and all the local coffee houses areshakin in their mocha.
Is America's most European city starting tolook more like, well, America?
(Rochell, AtlantaJournal-Constitution).SAN FRANCISCO At 6 p.m. on a recent Thursday at San FranciscoInternational Airport, the video monitors blinked a dishearteningmessage for about 200 United Shuttle passengers waiting to fly toLos Angeles.The 5:50, 6 and 6:30 p.m. flights had just been canceled, andthe 6:15, 7 and 7:20 p.m. flights had been delayed.
Only two of the10 flights scheduled for the next three hours were expected todepart on time.Now, more than passengers are giving low marks to the airport,the fifth-busiest in the nation and seventh-busiest in the world,handling 40 million passengers and 428,000 flights a year.
In itsannual rankings, the Federal Aviation Agency recently listed theSan Francisco airport as the second-worst for delays, behind NewarkInternational Airport.Then, two weeks ago, The Sunday Times of London reported that aninternational pilots' group had placed the San Francisco airportamong the 15 most dangerous landing strips in the world.
Thenewspaper said its account was based on a leaked copy of a reportby the International Federation of Airline Pilots Associations atits annual meeting in April.A big part of the airport's poor ranking, he said, comes fromthe fact that it conducts simultaneous operations on its twoparallel runways, which are only 750 feet apart.
Under federalregulations, runways must be at least 4,200 feet apart for landingin foul weather.Wilson said delays and difficult landing conditions resultedfrom the old runways, which were designed in the 1920s for DC-10aircraft, which have wingspans about half as wide as today's jumbojets.
The length of the runways poses no problem, he said.But if fog rolls in in the morning, the airport must cancel atleast half of its flights, delaying all arrivals and departures forthe rest of the day.
Plans for expanding the distance between therunways have been under way for more than a year.
An airportconsultant began a study early this month designed to reducedelays, ease the impact of noise on the community and make therunways at least 4,300 feet apart.The project would require the airport to fill in 400 acres ofthe San Francisco Bay, with a cost that could exceed $1 billion.The work, which could begin in 2002, would be financed by airportbonds, to be backed by the city and San Francisco County.Cumulus clouds will develop into isolated afternoonthunderstorms Sunday in interior New England as low pressure whichhas brought the recent unsettled weather lifts slowly offshore.
Lowclouds and chilly onshore winds will prevail along the coast fromMaine to Cape Cod, though coastal areas should be spared theshowers that will plague the interior.Sultry air will dominate in the Middle Atlantic States.
Highpressure aloft will provide sunshine from central New York toeastern South Carolina, though a few thunderstorms could developover the Appalachians.Hot and muggy conditions will continue over much of theSoutheast.
Morning low clouds will yield to afternoon sunshinedimmed at times by cumulus clouds.
Clusters of thunderstorms willdevelop over the Ohio Valley and move southeastward, bringingdrenching rains to portions of the region.
A vigorous jet streamdisturbance will spawn severe thunderstorms in Michigan with hail,strong winds, and isolated tornadoes.
Thunderstorms will alsodevelop along a cold front from southern Illinois through northernArkansas, while pesky showers and cool breezes swirl around lowpressure from Minnesota to eastern Montana.Elsewhere, searing heat will continue over Texas.
Late daythunderstorms will develop in the northern Rockies as a disturbancerotates around low pressure aloft.
Building warmth will dominate inthe valleys of the Pacific Northwest, while showers dot the peaksof the Cascades.
The Southwest will be sunny and seasonably warm,with the exception of low clouds along the California coast.The official start of summer is at 10:03 a.m.
ET Sunday, butastronomy, not meteorology, is the deciding factor.
It is then thatthe northward trek of the sun's rays across the planet will cease.At that moment when the sun stood still, the summer solstice hadarrived.
For the next six months, the direct rays of the sun willmove inexorably south, culminating in the winter solstice.
Butalas, the summer season is the slowest to fade.
As a result of theelliptical shape of the earth's orbit around the sun, the NorthernHemisphere summer lasts 93 days while winter is 89 days long.BORDEAUX, France The temperature on the field was 102 degrees,which meant that the Mexican fans underneath their licensedsombreros had a big advantage over the Belgian fans brandishinginflatable red tridents.But after the last brow had been mopped and the last waterbottle had been drained, neither of their teams would have anadvantage in the Parc Lescure.
This World Cup Group E match was onethat neither Belgium nor Mexico could afford to lose, and, as hasoften been the case in France this June, neither team lost.Of the 26 matches played thus far in the finals, 10 havefinished in draws, but what made this 2-2 affair more compellingthan most was that the Mexicans had to rally from a two-goaldeficit to salvage the point that kept them on top of theirdifficult group.The Belgians took their man advantage in the 29th minute, afterPavel Pardo was given a red card for a tackle from behind onBelgian defender Vital Borkelmans.
In less evangelical times, thetackle might have earned Pardo only a yellow card, but in thecurrent climate, it was difficult to find fault with referee HughDallas' judgment.The Belgians, prone to imprecise passing and ballhandlingerrors, took their time to capitalize, but in the 44th minute theyscored off a corner kick from their Brazilian-born striker LuisOliveira.
The ball brushed the head of defender Claudio Suarez anddeflected off Marc Wilmots past Jorge Campos.It was hardly the most aesthetic goal of this tournament, butthen Wilmots, a solidly built 29-year-old who runs more like apulling guard than an attacking midfielder, is not known for hisflair.
He is known for his efficiency and his power, and threeminutes into the second half, he took control of the ball outsidethe Mexican penalty area and essentially bowled over the lucklessSuarez, shoving him out of the way with his left forearm, andscoring his second goal with a jab of his right foot.Perhaps it was the heat, perhaps it was the Mexicans' superiortechnical skill, but with only 10 men, they began to penetrate theBelgian defense with more consistency, and when JesusRamirez droveinto the penalty box and was brought down from behind by Belgianmidfielder Gert Verheyen, the Scottish referee immediately awardedthe Mexicans a penalty kick.But the Mexican players wanted more than a chance to score inthe 55th minute, they wanted a chance to play the rest of thismatch on even terms, and before Dallas had a chance to reach intohis pocket, five players had formed an angry wall in front of himand screamed for a red card.
Dallas took his time, but he wouldsoon grant the Mexican wish.It was the eighth red card awarded in the last seven matches ofthese World Cup finals.
But unlike other coaches who have fallenvictim to the new zeal, Leekens declined to cry foul.When Mexican Captain Alberto Garcia Aspe put that penalty kickinto the lower right corner of the Belgian goal, neither he nor histeammates were feeling the heat, and on their next serious chancein the 63rd minute, they would score the equalizer.
This goal hadnothing in common with Wilmots' ungainly efforts.
It came off awonderfully timed left-footed cross from Ramirez that strikerCuauhtemoc Blanco put past goalkeeper Filip de Wilde with a leftfooted volley in mid-air that looked every bit as difficult as itwas.CLEVELAND Ronald Reagan was voted into the White House thelast year the Yankees won 100 or more games, in 1980.
Don Mattinglynever played on a pinstriped team that won 100 games, nor did DaveRighetti.
No easy feat, 100 victories.But the Yankees of 1998 are already halfway to that benchmarkafter beating Cleveland by 5-3 Saturday afternoon as David Wellspitched eight strong innings.
The Yankees have played fewer gamesthan any other major league team, because of rainouts and theYankee Stadium closing, but they became the first to win 50 gamesthis season.
The Atlanta Braves had a 49-24 record as they preparedto play Montreal Saturday night.The Yankees have won four of their last eight, their paceslowing somewhat in the midst of what figures to be the mostchallenging two weeks of their season, with games in Baltimore andCleveland, with games against the Braves and the Mets, and withoutBernie Williams.Nevertheless, the Yankees' winning percentage is .746; theywould win 121 games if they continue this pace, which would shatterthe modern-day major-league record of 111 victories.
Should theywin 47 of their remaining 95 games less than half they wouldfinish the season 97-65.
A hundred victories seems inevitable,especially since all elements of the team are functioningeffectively.With Wells' outing Saturday, the Yankees' pitching rotation hasturned in 17 consecutive starts of five and a third innings ormore; only twice in 39 games since May 6 has a Yankees starterfailed to last five innings.Wells' performance may have been his best since his perfect gameon May 17.
His curveball dived across the strike zone, his fastballwas explosive, his command nearly impeccable.
Jorge Posada, theYankees' catcher, would set his target, inside or outside, andWells would hit it constantly, expertly.
Wells allowed two runs,eight hits, no walks and struck out eight.The Yankees' offense has sputtered somewhat in the absence ofWilliams, and Tino Martinez, the first baseman, has not regainedhis stroke since being hit in the back by Baltimore's ArmandoBenitez last month.
Martinez has said his right shoulder sometimesfeels weak, as he pulls the bat through the strike zone.But the Yankees manage to find a way, from all corners of theirlineup.
With the Yankees down by 1-0, Paul O'Neill opened thefourth inning with a single.
Martinez then pulled a grounder pastfirst baseman Jim Thome into the right-field corner.
Manny Ramirez,Cleveland's right fielder, fumbled with the ball a bit beforerelaying it back to the infield, and O'Neill who appeared to slowafter rounding second scored just ahead of the throw.
ForMartinez, it was his first double since May 15, four days before hewas hit by Benitez.Tim Raines then grounded to second, with Martinez taking third.Darryl Strawberry, starting his third consecutive game, slammed ahigh drive to right field, where Ramirez backed against the wall,reached up and gloved the ball only to bounce against the fenceand lose control of the ball.
Martinez scored easily, andStrawberry pulled into second with a double,Strawberry appeared to be limping heavily as he rounded firstand pulled into second.
Although he has 10 home runs and producesruns when he plays, Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager, has beenreluctant to use Strawberry on a regular basis to protect hissurgically repaired left knee.In the fifth inning, Scott Brosius led off against Clevelandstarter Dave Burba (8-5) by hitting a high fastball it into thestands in left-center field, an estimated 419 feet.
It was theseventh homer of the season for Brosius.One out later, Chuck Knoblauch walked and took second when DerekJeter reached base on an error by Thome.
O'Neill then pulled asingle through the right side of the infield, and Knoblauch racedhome, giving the Yankees a 4-1 lead.The Yankees' defense has been exceptional all season, and anerrant throw by Jeter in the third inning was the first error by aYankees shortstop this season, and only the third error of the yearby Jeter.
Before allowing an unearned run Friday, the Yankees'defense had allowed only one in the previous 185 innings.The defense helped Wells get through an eighth-inning jam.
DavidBell singled to right-center, where Chad Curtis hustled over toretrieve the ball, and after Bell thought about trying for secondand then fell down stopping, the Yankees nabbed him in a rundown.Curtis ran down a fly from Kenny Lofton in left-center for thesecond out.
The Indians scored a single run in the inning, cuttingthe Yankees' edge to 4-2.Mike Stanton, who is appealing the five-game suspension handeddown this week by American League President Gene Budig, thought hisappeal would be heard on Monday.
In fact, his hearing has not beenscheduled, and according to a league official, it will not occurMonday.
If Stanton begins to serve the suspension on Wednesday, asscheduled, then he will miss two games against the Atlanta Bravesand all three games of the interleague series with the Mets.Della Rocca was instrumental in the revival of what is now knownas Community Mayors of New York and New Jersey and served as itsdirector.
An all-volunteer group based in Brooklyn, it organizesrecreational trips and shows for children and adults with specialneeds.
Typical events have been visits to Coney Island, the circusin Manhattan, the New York Aquarium, and the Bronx Zoo.More recently, he helped create a summer camp for blind childrenin Suffern, N.Y., known as Camp Montebello.A Brooklyn native, he served in Europe in World War II, and,upon returning, went into the restaurant business begun in 1894 byhis grandparents.
Besides running his various restaurants, he waschairman of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Board,and he helped found the Fort Greene Civic Center.The Community Mayors group was a revival of an organizationcalled the Locality Mayors that was founded in 1875 in Manhattan.For a time, every block on the Lower East Side had a member,usually a politician or saloon keeper to whom people would taketheir troubles and receive rent money or a Christmas turkey inreturn for their votes.Under the leadership of Louis Zeltner, a newspaperman, the groupbecame a charity and shed its political associations, but it brokeup after his death decades ago.
Della Rocca adopted the idea as away to aid the disabled.He is survived by his wife, Phyllis; a daughter, Shelley Apreaof Flemington, N.J.; a son, Peter J., of Cranford, N.J.; and twogranddaughters.Dr.
Daniel I. Axelrod, a paleoecologist at the University ofCalifornia at Davis who reconstructed the ancient landscapes of theWest by examining plant fossils, died on June 2 at his home inDavis.
He was 87.Axelrod reported how wet forests slowly turned into Nevada'sdeserts over 40 million years of the Earth's cooling and heatingand tracked the migration of plants to places that suited thembetter.Some of Axelrod's most important work came after he retired as aprofessor of geology and botany at Davis and became what manycolleges call an emeritus professor, with no teaching to do.
Beforelong, he won an award as the outstanding researcher at Davis, wontop awards from several national research organizations andreceived a Guggenheim fellowship to boot.Axelrod roamed the world looking at how plants adapt to newenvironments, and he came up with ways to account for the migrationof entire forests in response to climate changes.He documented the evolution of America's grasslands, its centralprairies, the deserts of Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada, and thezones of thorny thickets called chaparral in the foothills of theRockies and the Sierra Nevada.All this, said Dr. Michael Barbour, a botanist and professor ofenvironmental horticulture at Davis, was a scope of work achievedby few botanists.
Axelrod created maps showing how plantcommunities evolved through most of the Western United States.For example, Axelrod's collection of tens of thousands offossils showed him that the Sierra Nevada were once just gentlefoothills, with slopes rising no more than 2,000 feet.
He alsofound that the giant redwoods, lately living in California, wereonce rooted in Nevada's ancient wet forestland.Axelrod, who wrote about such topics as dinosaur extinction andplate tectonics, was a founder of the discipline of paleobotany,which uses fossils to recreate climates that existed millions ofyears ago, said Dr. Jay Quade, director of the Desert Laboratory ofthe University of Arizona in Tucson.Axelrod figured out that today's plants of a dry Nevada evolvedfrom ancestral plants that lived in central Mexico long ago in azone like the Nevada desert of today.Daniel Isaac Axelrod was born in Brooklyn, N.Y.
He received allhis degrees from the University of California at Berkeley, his B.A.in botany in 1933, and his M.A.
and Ph.D., both in botany andpaleontology, in 1936 and 1938.He served in the Army from 1942 to 1946, winning the Bronze Starfor his work in photographic intelligence in the Philippines.In 1946, Axelrod joined the University of California at LosAngeles, moved to the Davis campus in 1967 and became an emeritusprofessor there in 1976.He is survived by his wife, Marilyn Gayler Axelrod; a son, PeterAxelrod, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Hillary DionGayler, of Davis; a sister, Dorothy Heller Axelrod, of Arcata,Calif.
; and a brother, Walter Axelrod, of Rainbow, Calif.; and onegrandchild.LYONS, France It is great that the Clinton administrationwants to reconcile with Iran, Alexi Lalas said.
He and his U.S.teammates will shake hands with Iran's players before Sunday's gameand exchange jerseys afterward.
But this is the World Cup, andpolitics must take a backseat to soccer, he said.
Ultimately, it ismore urgent to win the game than to win new friends.Without a victory over Iran, the United States (0-1) has almostno chance of advancing to the second round of the World Cup.
Andyet anything less would mean disappointment and a failure to matchits accomplishments during the 1994 World Cup.
In fact, theAmericans not only need to beat Iran, they will also very likelyneed to win by at least two goals, given the tie breaker formulaused to determine which teams advance in soccer's worldchampionship tournament.Because his team needs goals, and because it is looking torelieve the timidity that accompanied its 2-0 loss to Germany lastMonday, Coach Steve Sampson has called for more risk taking andassertiveness in the team's attack.
He may even abandon the 3-6-1formation, with its lone forward, in favor of two forwards.
If so,he could either start Eric Wynalda and Roy Wegerle up front, orperhaps start Wynalda with Tab Ramos as a withdrawn forward.Frankie Hejduk, the world's fastest surfer, will certainlyreplace Mike Burns at right wing.
Ramos could also replace theinvisible Ernie Stewart as an attacking midfielder.
The coach isholding his intended lineup like a poker hand, revealing nothing.But some believe Sampson may push David Regis into midfield andstart Lalas as a marking back to counter Iran's imposing6-foot-4-inch forward, Ali Daei.A metallurgical engineer from the Azerbaijan region of Iran,Daei had a father who did not want him to play until he hadgraduated from high school.
But his mother was sympathetic to herson's athletic interests.His mother must have a wonderful eye for talent.
Her son nowplays in the prestigious German Bundesliga and has just signed fornext season with Bayern Munich.
He is strong in the air andunafraid of contact.
Iran committed 30 fouls in a fearless 1-0 lossto Yugoslavia, and Daei was whistled nine times.
This is whySampson may assign Lalas to him, muscle for muscle.At 6-3, Lalas would also enjoy a considerable height advantageover many Iranian players, which could come in handy on finishingcorner kicks in front of the opposing goal, where he can bedangerous.
But a different lineup and a different formation willnot matter unless the Americans also bring a new attitude to theIran game.
Formations don't win games, determined players do.Sentiment aside, the two countries are still far apart, andofficials are on guard against the possible disruption of politicsand violence.
No banners will be allowed inside Gerland Stadium onSunday.
A Swiss referee has been appointed, a neutral arbiter froma neutral country.And when the game is over, Sampson said, he will try to collectan Iranian jersey, perhaps Daei's, for his 9-year-old son, Brandon.As one of 14 commanders on the Pittsburgh police force, Ms.Bryant gets more than her share of opportunities to do things rightthe first time.
And so do hundreds of other women in blue whopatrol the streets of the nation's 48th largest city.On a police force of 1,100 officers, 25 percent are women, thehighest percentage of any law-enforcement agency in the UnitedStates and more than twice the average percentage, says a recentstudy by the National Center for Women and Policing, a Los Angelesdivision of the Feminist Majority Foundation.The survey, which reflects the composition of 100 agencies in1997, also found that the Pittsburgh force included the nation'shighest percentage of women in command positions, 37.5 percent.
Inaddition to Ms. Bryant, whose district has the highest crime ratein the city, five other women in Pittsburgh are commanders, a rankjust below assistant chief and deputy chief.Pittsburgh is just one of a number of major cities where crimerates are steadily falling, and neither Ms. Bryant nor any othersenior official on the force attributes the trend to the largenumber of women who are officers.
More likely, they agreed, newcommunity policing techniques and updated technology were helpingthe department to turn from a reactive style, largely responding to911 calls, to a preventive approach.Nonetheless, Ms. Bryant and other women on the Pittsburgh forcesay the skills women bring to the job add vital components topolicing.
Women, they say, are more inclined than men to usecommunication skills to quell potentially violent situations, andthey can bring an extra sensitivity to situations involvingchildren and rape victims.But for all the progress women have made on the Pittsburghforce, many fear a backslide.
A 1976 court order demanding that forevery white man hired, the force had to hire a woman and twomembers of minorities, one a man and one a woman, expired in 1991.Ever since, the number of women and members of minorities joiningthe force has slowed.
And in a recent lawsuit against the city,eight white men who failed to get jobs on the force, wonsettlements in a reverse discrimination case.Officials here say the main impediment to recruiting highlyqualified women and men is the strong national economy, whichis enabling private industry to offer higher pay for entry-levelpositions to people who would be attracted to a career in lawenforcement.
In addition, municipal budget constraints, aselsewhere, have slowed hiring.
McNeilly said he did not expect thecity to replace officers who retired or resigned for more than ayear.McNeilly and Mayor Tom Murphy said they remained sensitive tothe issue and they vowed to take new approaches to find qualifiedwomen for the force.
They said they intended to step up theirrecruiting efforts and to focus on women leaving the military as alikely pool of candidates.For the time being, at least, Pittsburgh remains a showcase forwomen in policing.
The survey found that only five other cities Detroit, Miami, Philadelphia, Washington and Toledo, Ohio hadpolice forces in which women accounted for 20 percent of officers.In all those cities but Miami, the strong presence of women wasaided by a court order, the survey found.
On Miami's force of 2,920officers, no woman serves in a command position.By contrast, the survey found that 42 agencies including thepolice departments in Nassau County, N.Y., and Newark, N.J., thestate police in New York and New Jersey, and the Port Authority ofNew York-New Jersey had fewer than 10 percent female officers in1997.As she rose in rank over the years, she said, attitudes slowlychanged as men on the force grew more comfortable with womenbecause of the skills women brought to the job.In many situations, Ms. Bryant said, women serve as a soothingbalance to the macho tendencies of male officers, a situation thatis influencing men on the force.Ms.
Bryant, who grew up in a housing project and saw policeofficers as people to be feared, conceded that old ways die hardamong some officers.
But most men working under her command, shesaid, dare not display any signs of discomfort or disrespect.But the surest sign of progress, she said, may be the blackboardin the men's room, on which officers scribble complaints and nastyremarks or so she is told.HARTFORD, Conn.
When George Perry caught his world record22-pound-6-ounce bass nearly 70 years ago, he won a nationalfishing contest sponsored by Field Stream.
The fish he pulledfrom Montgomery Lake, Ga., in 1932 won him $75.
That amount is$999,925 less than the winners took home at a four-day basstournament that concluded Saturday along the banks of theConnecticut River.Called the Forrest Wood Open, part of the Wal-Mart FLW Tour, thecontest marked the richest bass-fishing event in history, completewith elimination rounds, television coverage and enough corporatesponsors to rival the Olympics.
Prizes ranged from $200,000 forfirst place in the professional division, which was won by RandallHutson of Washburn, Mo., with a five-fish limit weighing in at 8pounds 6 ounces, to $40,000 for the amateur division, which was wonby Frank Free of Buford, Ga., with a five-fish limit weighing 6pounds 11 ounces.In a separate category, bass pro Denny Brauer of Camdenton, Mo.,gathered the most points and won the right to have his face adorn abox of Wheaties.By Friday, after two elimination rounds, only 10 boats and 20anglers remained from the original field of 300 men.
In basstournaments, each boat is teamed with a professional and anamateur, but catches are scored separately.
Total daily weightdetermines who advances and, ultimately, who wins the top prizes.Unlike George Perry, who reportedly caught his fish using $4worth of tackle (including the makeshift boat he assembled with 75cents worth of scrap lumber), a tournament bass angler lugs enoughgear to warrant a second mortgage.At precisely 6 o'clock, each boat roared away from the dock,then wound and twisted its way beneath Bulkeley and FoundersBridges in downtown Hartford at speeds more suitable for a JamesBond movie than a fishing contest.Over the next hour, most anglers had settled into theirrespective spots.
Bass pro Randy Howell of Littleton, N.C.,relentlessly cast into a single concrete culvert no more than 30feet wide to eke out two little smallmouth by the 2 p.m. deadline.He earned $23,000 for his eight-hour shift, but was eliminated fromthe next day's competition.Three boats fished an oxbow in the river called Chapman Pond,some 30 miles south of Hartford.
Among them was an old-time pronamed Basil Bacon of Springfield, Mo.Bacon carefully made his way along the edge of a submerged weedbed, methodically slipping a plastic jig into tiny pockets.
Ascarlet tananger sang in the woods.
Except for the television crewtaping his every move some 30 feet away, it seemed like the perfectimage of bass fishing, far from the hype and endless promotion ofthe fishing shows.An hour passed with no fish taken.
An osprey soared into view,spent a minute surveying the situation, then matter-of-factlyplunged into the pond coming up with a largemouth, weightundetermined.
It flew to a nearby dead tree and promptly ate itscatch.NEW YORK When the Atlanta Braves roar into Yankee Stadium forthe highly anticipated interleague match between the top teams inthe National and American Leagues Monday night, much may be made ofwhat the Braves have yet to fix since losing to the Yankees in the1996 World Series.The Braves' bullpen has not seemed the same since Jim Leyritzdemystified the Braves' stopper, Mark Wohlers, with one mightythree-run home run in the '96 Series.Wohlers, who was on the disabled list last month, has pitchedpoorly since coming back, allowing six hits, nine walks and sevenruns in six and two-thirds innings.
The struggles were so obviousthat the Braves sent the pitcher to the minors on Friday so hecould work on mechanics with a pitching coach.
That leaves thecloser's duties in the hands of the 43-year-old Dennis Martinez,who has two of the Braves' relatively small total of 17 saves.But don't expect the Yankees or any team trying to measure itsworth against the Braves to fixate solely on this flaw.
Not whenthe Braves, already strong because of their starting pitching, haveadroitly filled other holes.
Indeed, the Braves come to townpotentially tougher than they were a year ago when they won two ofthree games in interleague play against the Yankees.The Braves' 49-24 record as of Saturday afternoon and .671winning percentage are second in the major leagues to the Yankees'marks of 49-17, .742.The Braves' starters are omnipresent and as effective as ever,with three consecutive complete-game victories by the rookie KevinMillwood, Denny Neagle and the incomparable Greg Maddux in the lastweek alone.For once, though, the starting pitching isn't necessarily theprimary weapon.
At least not since Andres Galarraga came on boardand established himself as perhaps the most profitable pickup ofthe off-season, as well as a player capable of transforming anentire offense.Galarraga, a former Colorado Rockie turned free-agentacquisition, has spent the season not only bashing the baseball,but also shattering the notions that he is an over-the-hill playerincapable of compiling big numbers without the aid of the thin airof mile-high Denver.Galarraga, 37, who was refused three guaranteed years by theRockies, found a home in Atlanta.
The first-base replacement forFred McGriff has driven in 67 runs, strong evidence that Galarragaremains more than capable of driving in 145 runs, his average thelast two seasons.Then there are the home runs.
Galarraga has lost nothing in thetransition from high altitude to sea level.
Rather, he is makingTurner Field look as cozy as Coors Field, peppering a stadium thatwas initially thought to favor pitchers with 11 of his 25 homeruns, all but one farther than 400 feet.The different look has not been in the explosive offense alone.Galarraga gives the Braves a right-handed threat in the middle ofan order once top-heavy with left-handed hitters and thereforevulnerable to left-handed pitchers.Left-handed relievers could be brought in to force aswitch-hitter like Chipper Jones to his less potent right-handedside, then dominate left-handed swingers like McGriff and RyanKlesko, as the Yankees' Graeme Lloyd did so memorably in the '96Series.
Now Galarraga sits nestled between Jones and Klesko and theeffect is trickling up as well as down.While Galarraga and shortstop Walt Weiss are the most notableadditions, the Braves also shored up their once questionablesupporting cast, which, like the bullpen, paled in comparison tothe Yankees' waves of onetime all-stars in October 1996.The Braves still don't have the likes of Darryl Strawberry,Cecil Fielder and Tim Raines coming off the bench, but they haveadded some experience in the form of Gerald Williams, Curtis Prideand Ozzie Guillen.Williams, a former Yankee reserve outfielder and onetime regularin Milwaukee, has played sparingly.
But a pair of doubles and twoRBI in a spot start against Florida last week were indicative ofthe contributions he and other substitutes are making.The Braves have not only added offense and depth since last seenby the Yankees.
They eradicated some concerns over the defense upthe middle.
Not only did the Braves add the smooth-fielding Weiss,but they also said goodbye to center fielder Kenny Lofton.
Theformer Gold Glove winner inexplicably failed to impress afield inhis one season in the National League.In Lofton's place stands the young Andruw Jones, who firstturned heads when at age 19 he hit two dramatic home runs in Game 1of the '96 Series.While these added elements bring a new dimension to a nowentrenched 1990s rivalry, the Yankees will find some things aboutthe Braves a time-honored continuum, namely Maddux, Tom Glavine andJohn Smoltz.Millwood, Andruw Jones, Javier Lopez and Chipper Jones stand asproof that the Braves, much like the Yankees, grow quality playersas well as buy them.
And like the Yankees' Andy Pettitte, MarianoRivera and Derek Jeter, the young Braves show a certain maturity bywelcoming the veterans' input.After the two games in New York and the two in Atlanta are over,both clubs will have a measure of how they match up, importantbecause this is more than an interleague curiosity piece.
TheYankees and Braves are providing hints of what might come in aWorld Series rematch many believe is as inevitable as it would beintriguing.The world's forests have been under siege since the turn of thecentury, but this year has been calamitous.
In Canada, Brazil,Mexico, Central America, Africa, and Indonesia, fires havedestroyed nearly 40 million forested acres, an area as large as NewYork state.
The easy explanation is El Nino, a perverse weathersystem that has flooded some regions but left others bone dry.
Butthe main culprit, as always, is human activity, chiefly logging,mining, and agriculture, which dries out the forest by stripping itbare of trees, leaving even humid tropical rain forests vulnerableto fire.
For that reason, the fires are likely to reoccur, with orwithout El Nino, unless something is done to curb mankind'sinsatiable appetite for wood.In that context, there was a small ray of hope in theannouncement last week that a small South American country,Suriname, had decided to give permanent protection to four millionacres of untouched tropical forests, about one-tenth of the entirecountry.
Suriname reached its decision at the urging ofConservation International, an American environmental group thathas set up a private trust fund to help Suriname manage the area.The group became actively involved in Suriname several years ago,when Asian timber interests having pretty much stripped their owncountries of marketable hardwoods sought timber rights on 11million acres of Suriname's forests.
Suriname rejected that deal,and has now put four million of these acres out of reach.What makes this decision so heartening is that Suriname is apoor country that might normally have jumped at the quick profitspromised by foreign logging interests.
Far richer nations likeBrazil have been unable to resist these blandishments, and Asiantimber interests are even now burrowing deeper into the Amazon rainforest.
At the other end of the economic scale, Guyana, Surname'sdestitute neighbor, has opened up two-thirds of its forest mass toforeign companies.More than one-half of the world's original tropical forests havenow disappeared, mostly in this century.
At present rates ofdestruction, half of what is left could vanish in the next 50years.
This depressing prospect has not, however, inspired thewealthier nations to act constructively.
One of the few tangibleproducts of the 1992 Earth Summit was the Global EnvironmentalFacility, a multilateral body designed to persuade poor countriesto hang on to their natural assets, rain forests included.
But theUnited States, which pledged $435 million over five years, is $200million in arrears.The task of saving the forests has thus been left to privateconservation groups, whose resources are limited.
The very factthat one of these groups and one small country have joined to savefour million acres might shame Western governments into broaderaction.Church-goers in Woodville, Miss., likely will be hearing forquite some time about their preacher stripping down to his shortsand using his toes to maneuver a trophy largemouth bass into an$18,000 bass tournament payout.Whitaker literally caught a 12.7-pound bass by the tail to sailinto the winner's seat of the $450,000 Texas Outdoor AdventureSeries tournament, but not before having to use his toes and feetto free his line, which the fish had wrapped around a stump inabout 14 feet of water.It started when Whitaker cast a large tequila-colored plasticworm into a stumpy area Saturday during the second day of thethree-day tournament.
He felt the bass take the worm and set thehook, only to have his line wrapped around a stump by the fish.When he was unable to free it, he figured the only way he could getto the fish would be to go in after it.With Green holding onto Whitaker's boat, Whitaker stripped tohis shorts and went overboard, placing his line between his toes sohe could follow the line down to the fish.Whitaker managed to loosen the line from the stump and got backinto his boat, but the ordeal was far from over.
He suddenlyrealized that the fish had wrapped the line around another stump.So, he jumped back into the lake.The 12.7-pounder earned Whitaker the biggest prize of thetournament, but it wasn't the only fish caught by Whitaker thatclaimed a prize.On Friday, Whitaker caught a 7.71-pounder to win a $2,000 hourlybig-bass prize.
The 12.7-pounder won an hourly prize Saturdayvalued at more than $6,000 and then held up to claim the overallchampionship during Sunday's final round, in which a 9.99-pounderwas the heaviest bass weighed.Pulsipher's current mood stems from the holding pattern he is inat Class AAA Norfolk.
The 24-year-old left-hander is 7-5 with a3.96 earned run average for the Tides, but he has lost his last twostarts.
He knows there is no room for him in the Mets' rotationright now.
But that does not alleviate any of the thoughts goingthrough his head.Not that Pulsipher has no chance for a call-up.
The day aftertrading for Hideo Nomo on June 4, Mets General Manager StevePhillips called Pulsipher to tell him that he would not rule outpromoting Pulsipher in a bullpen role.
But that apparently did notassuage Pulsipher's fears, because he and Phillips met in Norfolklast week to talk again.In 14 starts, Pulsipher has allowed 50 runs, 38 earned, and 91hits in 86 1/3 innings.
He has walked 41 and struck out 58.
Lately,his name has come up in trade rumors, but until a deal is made oruntil the Mets beckon (and Mark Mimbs is the hottest left-hander inNorfolk right now), Pulsipher will just have to wait.The Mets have no such problems with Payton, who returned lastMonday from an 18-day stay on the disabled list because of a pulledright hamstring.
Duquette said Payton is not playing first baseanymore.
It is either left field, center field or designatedhitter.First, though, Payton needs to strengthen his hamstrings.
Whilehe was on the disabled list, an examination showed that hishamstrings were significantly weaker than his quadriceps.
And eventhough Payton was put on a strengthening program immediately, hefelt something in the right hamstring earlier this week.That is because, at 25, Payton is the brightest offensiveprospect in the organization.
After undergoing numerous elbowsurgeries that limited him to 71 minor-league games two seasons agoand none last year, Payton is batting .255 with four home runs and14 runs batted in, in 46 games with the Tides.
He has 10 doubles,three triples and 11 stolen bases.
He has already been called up tothe Mets briefly this season, although he never actually appearedin a game.And it is not a stretch to think Payton could be playing alittle center field for the Mets, maybe even by the end of thisseason.With Wilson, it is difficult to know what the expectations areanymore.
Since undergoing surgery on his right shoulder on Nov. 12,1996, the big right-hander has pitched in just five games, all lastseason, and all in the low-level minor leagues.This year, after being set back by shoulder and elbow stiffness,Wilson has finally progressed to the point where he can throwbatting practice, which he was scheduled to do for Todd Hundleyagain Saturday.Nah.
It's just a part of that elusive quality that is commonlyknown as chemistry.
This isn't the kind of chemistry of elementsand periodic tables, or the kind of chemistry that results inexplosions when the wrong stuff is mixed together.This is the kind of science that can have some influence on howa sports team plays on the field.Chemistry was cited as a major ingredient when the Rangers wonthe West in 1996.
Some of those players are gone, notablydesignated hitter Mickey Tettleton, center fielder Darryl Hamiltonand third baseman Dean Palmer.But the chemistry apparently remains with this team.
And thatchemistry will be called upon as the Rangers try to battle backinto first after losing their division lead to the Anaheim Angels.Team chemistry is kind of like the wind.
Few can explain what itis, or where it comes from, but you know when it's there and cansense when it isn't.Like H2O, which assumes the shape and color of what it's pouredinto, chemistry takes on many forms.Wetteland played on two teams with that kind of chemistry the1994 Montreal Expos that had the best record in baseball when theplayers went on strike and the '96 Yankees that won the WorldSeries.But also important is the chemistry of getting along well in theclubhouse, of blending 25 players of different ages and fromdifferent backgrounds and cultures in order to perform on thefield.Leaders such as Wetteland help make sure it happens.
An exampleis his complicated set of bullpen rules.The rules even apply before the game.
That's why, even thoughthe game still was a couple of hours away, Levine asked Wettelandif he wanted a cup of coffee, and why Wetteland was so polite inaccepting.If the players didn't like each other, off the field it couldturn into resentment and animosity.CLEVELAND Joe Torre will be an American League coach at nextmonth's all-star game in Colorado, at the request of Mike Hargrove,Cleveland's manager.
But it may be that only a couple of Yankeesplayers join him, in spite of the team's staggering success thefirst half of this season.No Yankee player is leading at his respective position in theballoting of fans, although Derek Jeter has a chance to overtakeAlex Rodriguez among the shortstops.
That would mean the Yankees'representatives would have to be chosen with an at-large bid,leaving them at the mercy of an imperfect system for selection.Bernie Williams would have been a strong candidate to be picked,but it may be that he won't be able to play again until after theall-star game break.
Paul O'Neill has hit well, and yet he doesn'thave the gaudy power numbers.Chuck Knoblauch is among the league leaders in runs scored, buthe's hitting .273 and other second basemen, like Damion Easley ofDetroit, have much greater production.
Jeter was the Yankees' bestplayer in the first two months but missed 15 days with an injury,and Hargrove seems to be leaning to including his own shortstop,Omar Vizquel, on the American League squad; that may or may notleave room for a third shortstop, like Jeter.David Cone has nine victories and is averaging more than astrikeout an inning, but his earned run average of 4.82 will hurthis chances.
David Wells is 8-2 and pitched a perfect game; he,too, has a relatively high ERA (4.47) among all-star candidates.Mariano Rivera, the Yankees' closer, has permitted just one walk in20 appearances and has a 1.11 ERA, but because of an early-seasoninjury and the Yankees' extraordinary offense, four other ALrelievers have more saves than he.
(Hargrove may give him extraconsideration because he regretted not picking Rivera in 1996, whenRivera was a dominant middle reliever.
)Hideki Irabu appears to be the Yankees' best pitching candidate,bearing a league-best 1.68 ERA, and opponents have batted just .191against him, also the best in the AL.
Working against Irabu will behis modest victory total of six (12 pitchers have eight or morevictories).
Irabu will have a chance to make a case for selectionSunday, when he pitches here against the Indians and Hargrove.Scott Brosius, the Yankees' third baseman, may have the bestchance among the position players to be chosen.
Cal Ripken Jr. ofBaltimore will be voted as the all-star starter at third base, butBrosius is having perhaps the finest season of any American Leaguethird baseman.
Going into Saturday's game, Brosius was batting.317, with 40 runs scored and 46 runs batted in, and he hasreceived increased recognition for his defense.Hargrove asked Torre to be his coach in 1996, but Torre declinedfor family considerations.
Later that season, Hargrove sent Torrenotes, telling him he was praying for his brother Frank, whoeventually needed a heart transplant.Jaret Wright angered the Yankees in spring training when he hitLuis Sojo with a pitch, breaking his hand and spurring their beliefthat he threw at Sojo intentionally.
But Wright confirmed his placeon the Yankees' most hated enemies list Friday night, when he hitPaul O'Neill with a pitch and then appeared to glare at the Yankeeoutfielder.O'Neill yelled at Wright as he walked to first base, with UmpireJohn Shulock escorting him most of the way, to keep O'Neill calm.Of course, they could always get an intriguing late trade offer,like the one last week from Milwaukee Bucks general manger BobWeinhauer, who was shopping former All-Star point guard TerrellBrandon or one of two first-round picks for a move up the selectionladder.Barring an unexpected trade or meteoric rise from a surpriseprospect such as Michigan's Robert Traylor, the Mavericks havetargeted their Final Four.They are planning to select either Saint Louis guard LarryHughes, Kansas forward Raef LaFrentz or one of two North Carolinateammates, forward Antawn Jamison and guard Vince Carter, withtheir No.
6 pick.
Nelson brought only those four players in forprivate workouts and seems content to add one of them most likelyCarter or LaFrentz to a team that last season went 20-62 andmissed the playoffs for a league-high eighth consecutive time.In what is becoming a consensus scenario among NBA personneltypes, Arizona guard Mike Bibby, Pacific center Michael Olowokandiand Kansas forward Paul Pierce are expected to go 1-2-3 in someorder.
That leaves the Mavericks third in line for the four playersthat round out the draft's top tier.
Hughes is one of the draft'sfastest risers and Jamison is considered a top-five pick, possiblyleaving Dallas with a choice between the athletic-but-raw Carterand the polished-but-soft LaFrentz.The Mavericks, who also have the 30th, 35th and 53rd picks,enter the draft seeking a pace-pushing point guard and a bulkybackup center.
But as for the four players who could slide to No.6: VINCE CARTER At 6-foot-7, 215 pounds and possessing an unmatched first stepand leaping ability, Carter was one of the nation's best finishersas a junior last season.
He averaged 15.6 points per game, but wasnever forced to consistently knock down the open 15-footers he willhave to bury as an NBA shooting guard or small forward.During workouts for Vancouver, Golden State, Denver and Dallas,Carter impressed with his shooting form if not his results.With the Mavericks, Carter could play shooting guard, slidingMichael Finley to small forward in case Nelson remains pessimisticof re-signing free agent Cedric Ceballos.
RAEF LaFRENTZ The 6-11, 235-pound senior is considered the best power-forwardprospect.
A two-time first-team All-America selection and Big 12player of the year, he has impressed scouts with his soft,left-handed touch and array of low-post moves that led to 19.8points and 11.4 rebounds last season.At 6-9 and 223 pounds, Jamison was simply too quick for collegeforwards and averaged 22.2 points and 10.5 rebounds as a junior atNorth Carolina last season.
With pogo-stick jumping ability and acat-quick release on his shots, he was the nation's consensusplayer of the year last season, joining only Michael Jordan as theonly Tar Heel to accomplish the feat.While scouts rave about his aggressiveness, agility and knackfor being in the right place at the right time, they're confused asto whether Jamison is a small forward or power forward.With the Mavericks, Jamison could utilize his athleticism inNelson's up-tempo style and allow Finley to play his more naturalshooting guard position.The Mavericks have long coveted the 19-year-old since watchinghim average 20.9 points as a 6-5 freshman shooting guard at SaintLouis last season.
Though he averaged only 2.4 assists, took almost17 shots per game and shot only 41 percent (29 percent on3-pointers), scouts drool over his quick first step, ball-handlingskills, unlimited shooting range and ability to create his own shotoff the dribble.Hughes, who scored 30 points seven times last season, couldeventually become the fast-breaking point guard Nelson desires.
Inlight of Robert Pack's injury-riddled season, Hughes would seem aperfect fit in Dallas.
Nelson, however, realizes the secret is out.The SEC, which started the realignment raiding rage in 1992 whenit added Arkansas and South Carolina, finds itself standing in thisgame of musical schools.
To stay at 12, it has to invite a Big Eastrefugee or pluck an unripe school (Louisville?)
from the expansionvine.Fictional whimsy, you say?
Perhaps.
But the previous fiveparagraphs are closer to fact than fantasy.
Why?
I've heardoff-the-record whispers from a variety of people who think the BigTen is ready to round out its membership to a dozen.
And itsprimary target is Notre Dame.Recently, Big Ten officials shrugged off a story out of AnnArbor, Mich., that had Notre Dame joining their league.
There willbe more stories and speculation, but we won't know for sure until anews conference is called.
When and if that happens, the conferencealignment dominoes will start falling.The Big Ten has been at 11 teams since Penn State joined in1993.
By adding a 12th team, the Big Ten could stage a conferencetitle game that could be worth $5 million to $7 million intelevision rights fees.But isn't it preposterous that haughty Notre Dame, the schoolwith its own football network (NBC), would join any conference?
Tenyears ago, did you think the possibility of the SouthwestConference dissolving preposterous?The Big Ten has made overtures to Notre Dame before.
This time,I hear, it's a Godfather offer.
Take it or leave it, Irish, therewon't be another chance.
The Big Ten is going to 12 no matter what.And if Notre Dame refuses, the Big Ten is prepared to inviteSyracuse from the Big East.
That would begin the end of the BigEast, where Notre Dame has found a home for its sports other thanfootball.With most of the second-tier bowls aligned with conferencetie-ins, Notre Dame is boxed out of the postseason if it fails toearn a spot in one of the four Bowl Championship Series games.
Thatproblem is solved if it joins the Big Ten.
(Quick aside on a juicy rumor: Big Ten commissioner Jim Delanyis considering emulating director James Cameron's King of the Worldpersonna.
He has talked casually of testing the limits ofexpansion.
16 teams?
20?
28?
30?
32?
)If the Big Ten domino falls, then watch the feeding frenzy.
Wordis the ACC is eager to reach a dozen members and has its eye onSyracuse, Boston College and either West Virginia or Miami of theBig East.
The Big East is on the endangered species list.The Pac-10 will get to 12 by inviting Colorado, a school whichconsidered a Pac-10 offer in the Big 12's infancy.
And the Pac-10's12th school?BYU or Utah.
Yes, either of the two leaders of the WesternAthletic Conference renegades would be a perfect fit; plus, thePac-10 has few other options if it wishes to expand.All the breakaway WAC schools have is the good word of theireight fellow defectors, so BYU and Utah are free to cut a betterdeal.
There is no honor among thieves or conference shufflers.And no, the Big 12 wouldn't throw a lifeline to TCU or SMU tobecome Colorado's replacement.
With the SWC dead, Arkansas' escapein 1992 has been erased from its permanent record.
Arkansas wouldbe a geographic fit for the Big 12.Once the SEC drafts a 12th school, big-time college athleticswould be found in five 12-team conferences: ACC, Big Ten, SEC,Pac-10 and Big 12.And there would again be peace in the collegiate valley.
Atleast until those five conferences get fed up with the NCAA'smeddling and decide to form their own association.TENDEX is a rating system originated in 1960 that blends 10statistical categories into a formula to show the number of pointsper minute a player is worth to his team.The formula regards each possession as worth about one point.Everything that contributes to scoring and getting the ball(points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks) is measured on theplus side.
Everything that results in loss of possession (missedshots and turnovers) is a minus.After computing the statistics, adjustments are made based onthe pace of play and strength of schedule.Game-pace rating is determined by considering all of thestatistics for a team and all of its opponents to come up with anumber that serves to balance the ratings of players onhigh-scoring offensive teams with those of players on conservativeoffensive teams.Because it's easier to rack up big statistics against weakopponents, a strength-of-schedule factor is added to make all teamsequal.The result is a three-digit TENDEX rating, not unlike a battingaverage in baseball.
This is then given a plus or minus ratingcomparing that player's rating to the average rating for thatposition.
The best players are the ones whose ratings are highestabove the positional average.Step 5: Figure Oregon State's team game-pace rating by computingthe pure stats total for the entire team and multiply that by .8,which is .9111.
Divide .7072808 from above by the team's game pace(.9111) to get .7762932.Step 6: Figure Oregon State's strength-of-schedule rating by:adding the conference rating for each opponent and dividing by thenumber of games in the season.
For example, say there are 30conferences rated 1-30 and all opponents for that season are fromthe Big 12, which is rated No.
1.
That would be 30 divided by 30games, which would be a strength of schedule rating of 1.000.Oregon State's strength of schedule rating is 1.088.
Divide.7762932 from above, by the the strength of schedule rating (1.088)to yield Benjamin's final TENDEX rating of .713.The final tally: Benjamin's plus-373 rating results from thedifference between his overall rating (.713) and the average ratingfor a college shooting guard (.340).
TENDEX at work Comparing the actual 1997 NBA Draft to the TENDEX projections.
1997 NBA Draft No.
Team Player, College Pos.
Comment 1.
San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F Consensus rookie of theyear 2.
Philadelphia Keith Van Horn, Utah F Averaged 19.7 pointsand 6.6 rebounds 3.
Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G Traded toToronto 4.
Vancouver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G Shot 41percent from field 5.
Denver Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F Averaged8.4 points 6.
Boston Ron Mercer, Kentucky G Boston's second-leadingscorer 7.
New Jersey Tim Thomas, Villanova F Traded to Sixers,started 48 games 8.
Golden State Adonal Foyle, Colgate C Made onlyone start all season 9.
Toronto Tracy McGrady, Mt.
Zion Academy FPrep star started 17 games, shot 45 percent 10.
Milwaukee DannyFortson, Cincinnati F Traded to Denver 11.
Sacramento Kings OlivierSaint-Jean, San Jose State G/F Shot only 40 percent 12.
IndianaAustin Croshere, Providence F Played only 243 minutes all season13.
Cleveland Derek Anderson, Kentucky G Superb Sixth Man, shot 87percent from foul line 14.
Clippers Maurice Taylor, Michigan FAveraged 11.5 points, 4.2 rebounds coming off bench 15.
MavericksKelvin Cato, Iowa State C Traded to Portland, blocked 94 shots 16.Cleveland Brevin Knight, Stanford G Earned first-team All-Rookiehonors 17.
Orlando Johnny Taylor, Tenn-Chattanooga F Appeared inonly 12 games 18.
Portland Chris Anstey, Australia C Averaged 5.9points, 3.8 rebounds 19.
Detroit Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C Appearedin 33 games 20.
Minnesota Paul Grant, Wisconsin C Missed seasonbecause of injury 21.
New Jersey Anthony Parker, Bradley G Tradedto Philadelphia 22.
Atlanta Ed Gray, California G Shot 38 percentFG 23.
Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G Averaged 11.6 points, 3.2assists, 1.5 steals 24.
Houston Rodrick Rhodes, Southern Cal G Shot37 percent FG 25.
New York John Thomas, Minnesota F Traded toBoston 26.
Miami Heat Charles Smith, New Mexico G Dunbar graduateplayed a total of 292 minutes 27.
Utah Jacque Vaughn, Kansas GFirmly planted on Jazz bench 28.
Chicago Keith Booth, Maryland FAppeared in six games 1997 TENDEX Draft This is the way TENDEX predicted the draft would go (comments aregiven for players not mentioned above) No.
Team Player, College Pos.
College rating 1.
San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F .927, plus-457 2.Philadelphia Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F .641, plus-191 3.
BostonChauncey Billups, Colorado G .562, plus-212 4.
Vancouver DerekAnderson, Kentucky G .726, plus-386 5.
Denver Antonio Daniels,Bowling Green G .576, plus-226 6.
Boston Keith Van Horn, Utah F.738, plus-348 7.
New Jersey Adonal Foyle, Colgate C .669, plus-1998.
Golden State Ron Mercer Kentucky F .537, plus-226 9.
Toronto TimThomas Villanova F .508, plus-108 10.
Milwaukee Kelvin Cato, IowaState C .671, plus-201 11.
Sacramento Lorenzo Coleman, TennesseeTech C .694, plus-224 Playing overseas 12.
Indiana Olivier St.Jean, San Jose State F .711, plus-321 13.
Cleveland Danny Fortson,Cincinnati F .771, plus-321 14.
Clippers Tracy McGrady, Mt.
ZionAcademy F no rating 15.
Dallas Brevin Knight, Stanford G .563,plus-213 16.
Cleveland Tunji Awojobi, Boston U. F .689, plus-239Not drafted 17.
Orlando Jerald Honeycutt, Tulane F .572, plus-182Averaged 6.4 points in 58 games 18.
Portland Bubba Wells, AustinPeay F/G .638, plus-248 Set NBA record for fastest disqualificationin a game 19.
Detroit Eric Washington, Alabama G .537, plus-197Averaged 7.7 points in 36 starts 20.
Minnesota Charles Smith, NewMexico G .558, plus-218 21.
New Jersey Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C.636, plus-166 22.
Atlanta Devin Davis, Miami (Ohio) F .599,plus-209 Not drafted 23.
Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G .562,plus-217 24.
Houston Kebu Stewart, Cal-State Bakersfield F .615,plus-165 Grabbed 31 rebounds in 110 minutes 25.
New York KiwaneGarris, Illinois G .537, plus-187 Not drafted 26.
Miami AnthonyParker, Bradley G .522, plus-182 27.
Utah Austin Croshere,Providence F .541, plus-151 28.
Chicago Nate Erdmann, Oklahoma G.506, plus-166 Drafted in second round 1998 TENDEX Draft List This list includes TENDEX ratings of players eligible for the 1998draft.Players should have plus-100 ratings to be considered draftableand they should be at least plus-200 to be considered lotterymaterial.
College players should progress in their ratings each season.Example: Ball State's Bonzi Wells had a .656-plus 266 as junior.This year as a senior, he improved to .725-plus 335, an improvementof 60 points.
He's rated No.
10 on the TENDEX list.There are no TENDEX ratings for the four high school playersexpected to be selected in the first round of the draft becausehigh school teams do not keep detailed statistics.The drive to clean up campaign finance dismissed as hopelessby many a Beltway expert got a shot of adrenaline last week.First, the House broke free of the Republican leadership, conductedits first spirited debate on reform and blocked two attempts toderail the Shays-Meehan bill.
No less dramatic, nine former leadersof the American Civil Liberties Union repudiated the organization'swrongheaded view that the bill is unconstitutional.
The reformers'ranks are growing.
It is likelier than ever that the bill can passin the House.The constitutional issue was at the center of the week's crucialdevelopments.
The ACLU has warned that Shays-Meehan would violatethe Supreme Court's regrettable Buckley vs. Valeo decision.
That1976 ruling threw out the campaign spending limits imposed by thepost-Watergate campaign reform laws on free-speech grounds.
Byequating spending with speech, the court has hobbled subsequentefforts to clean up campaign finance.
We have argued that neitherthe Shays-Meehan ban on unlimited donations to political partiesnor its curbs of fund-raising for campaign ads run by independentgroups violate Buckley because they would curb fund-raising, notspending.
There have been limits on fund-raising since the ban oncorporate giving to candidates in 1907.Most lawmakers with strong records in civil liberties agree thatShays-Meehan is constitutional.
But many Republicans, eager topreserve Congress' current system of influence-peddling, have citedthe constitutional concerns as a cover.
Independent groups like theNational Right to Life Committee, which would have to limitfund-raising for its attack ads, also cite First Amendmentconcerns.
By speaking out, the former ACLU leaders have blown awaythat smokescreen.Given its history, of course, the Supreme Court could rejectsome Shays-Meehan provisions.
That is why it was important lastweek to defeat a devious amendment advanced by opponents of thebill.
It would have nullified the entire bill if any part of it wasfound to be unconstitutional.
Thanks to a strong effort by RichardGephardt and David Bonior, the Democrats' leader and whip, almostall Democrats voted no.
They were joined by 65 Republicans.Like the House's rejection of an attempt to substitute a studycommission for the real reforms of Shays-Meehan, the vote on Fridaydemonstrated that dozens of Republicans are rebelling against HouseSpeaker Newt Gingrich's plan to position their party as the enemyof clean campaigns.
If these reform-minded Republicans now joinwith the Democrats, Shays-Meehan will win.
Opponents are runningout of tricks, and Gingrich henchmen like Rep. Tom DeLay are losingtheir ability to intimidate GOP members.
With a vote promisedbefore the August recess, this is a summer when lawmakers need tohear from voters who want a Congress that is not on the take.Benjamin, though, might very well be the surprise of the draftwith a .713 TENDEX rating, 373 points higher than the averagerating for a college shooting guard (.340).
The past two collegeguards to have ratings comparable to Benjamin's were Penny Hardawayand Michael Jordan.Benjamin, a 6-foot-6 shooting guard who averaged 19.5 points and5.0 rebounds a game while shooting 54 percent from the field, wasone of four Pacific-10 Conference players to lead their teams inscoring and rebounds in the 1997-98 season.However, Mavericks director of player personnel Keith Grant,whose team has the No.
6 overall pick, said Benjamin is notconsidered one of the elite players in the draft.
Grant citesBenjamin's relative inexperience and his 29- percent shooting from3-point distance.Benjamin replaced Utah's Andre Miller as the TENDEX No.
1 pickafter Miller elected to return to the Utes for his senior year.Miller is the projected No.
1 pick on the 1999 TENDEX draft list.TENDEX ranks Benjamin, Pacific center Michael Olowokandi andNorth Carolina guard Vince Carter as the top three choices in thisyear's draft.
Meanwhile, NBA scouts include Arizona guard MikeBibby, Olowokandi and Kansas swingman Paul Pierce among the firstthree selections.Other players rated by TENDEX to be high first-round selectionsthis year include Iowa small forward Ryan Bowen, Georgetown powerforward Jahidi White, and Northwestern center Evan Eschmeyer.
Allthree players are projected by NBA scouts to be no better thansecond-round picks.The drive to clean up campaign finance dismissed as hopelessby many a Beltway expert got a shot of adrenaline last week.First, the House broke free of the Republican leadership, conductedits first spirited debate on reform, and blocked two attempts toderail the Shays-Meehan bill.
No less dramatic, nine former leadersof the American Civil Liberties Union repudiated the organization'swrongheaded view that the bill is unconstitutional.
The reformers'ranks are growing.
It is likelier than ever that the bill can passin the House.The constitutional issue was at the center of the week's crucialdevelopments.
The ACLU has warned that Shays-Meehan would violatethe Supreme Court's regrettable Buckley vs. Valeo decision.
That1976 ruling threw out the campaign spending limits imposed by thepost-Watergate campaign reform laws on free-speech grounds.
Byequating spending with speech, the court has hobbled subsequentefforts to clean up campaign finance.
We have argued that neitherthe Shays-Meehan ban on unlimited donations to political partiesnor its curbs of fund-raising for campaign ads run by independentgroups violate Buckley because they would curb fund-raising, notspending.
There have been limits on fund-raising since the ban oncorporate giving to candidates in 1907.Most lawmakers with strong records in civil liberties agree thatShays-Meehan is constitutional.
But many Republicans, eager topreserve Congress' current system of influence-peddling, have citedthe constitutional concerns as a cover.
Independent groups like theNational Right to Life Committee, which would have to limitfund-raising for its attack ads, also cite First Amendmentconcerns.
By speaking out, the former ACLU leaders have blown awaythat smokescreen.Given its history, of course, the Supreme Court could rejectsome Shays-Meehan provisions.
That is why it was important lastweek to defeat a devious amendment advanced by opponents of thebill.
It would have nullified the entire bill if any part of it wasfound to be unconstitutional.
Thanks to a strong effort by DickGephardt and David Bonior, the Democrats' leader and whip, almostall Democrats voted no.
They were joined by 65 Republicans.Like the House's rejection of an attempt to substitute a studycommission for the real reforms of Shays-Meehan, the vote on Fridaydemonstrated that dozens of Republicans are rebelling against HouseSpeaker Newt Gingrich's plan to position their party as the enemyof clean campaigns.
If these reform-minded Republicans now joinwith the Democrats, Shays-Meehan will win.
Opponents are runningout of tricks, and Gingrich henchmen like Rep. Tom DeLay are losingtheir ability to intimidate GOP members.
With a vote promisedbefore the August recess, this is a summer when lawmakers need tohear from voters who want a Congress that is not on the take.TENDEX is a rating system originated in 1960 that blends 10statistical categories into a formula to show the number of pointsper minute a player is worth to his team.The formula regards each possession as worth about one point.Everything that contributes to scoring and getting the ball(points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks) is measured on theplus side.
Everything that results in loss of possession (missedshots and turnovers) is a minus.After computing the statistics, adjustments are made based onthe pace of play and strength of schedule.Game-pace rating is determined by considering all of thestatistics for a team and all of its opponents to come up with anumber that serves to balance the ratings of players onhigh-scoring offensive teams with those of players on conservativeoffensive teams.Because it's easier to rack up big statistics against weakopponents, a strength-of-schedule factor is added to make all teamsequal.The result is a three-digit TENDEX rating, not unlike a battingaverage in baseball.
This is then given a plus or minus ratingcomparing that player's rating to the average rating for thatposition.
The best players are the ones whose ratings are highestabove the positional average.Step 5: Figure Oregon State's team game-pace rating by computingthe pure stats total for the entire team and multiply that by .8,which is .9111.
Divide .7072808 from above by the team's game pace(.9111) to get .7762932.
Step 6: Figure Oregon State's strength-of-schedule rating by:adding the conference rating for each opponent and dividing by thenumber of games in the season.
For example, say there are 30conferences rated 1-30 and all opponents for that season are fromthe Big 12, which is rated No.
1.
That would be 30 divided by 30games, which would be a strength of schedule rating of 1.000.Oregon State's strength of schedule rating is 1.088.
Divide.7762932 from above, by the the strength of schedule rating (1.088)to yield Benjamin's final TENDEX rating of .713.
The final tally: Benjamin's plus-373 rating results from thedifference between his overall rating (.713) and the average ratingfor a college shooting guard (.340).
TENDEX at work Comparing the actual 1997 NBA Draft to the TENDEX projections.
1997 NBA Draft No.
Team Player, College Pos.
Comment 1.
San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F Consensus rookie of theyear 2.
Philadelphia Keith Van Horn, Utah F Averaged 19.7 points and 6.6rebounds 3.
Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G Traded to Toronto 4.
Vancouver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G Shot 41 percent fromfield 5.
Denver Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F Averaged 8.4 points 6.
Boston Ron Mercer, Kentucky G Boston's second-leading scorer 7.
New Jersey Tim Thomas, Villanova F Traded to Sixers, started 48games 8.
Golden State Adonal Foyle, Colgate C Made only one start allseason 9.
Toronto Tracy McGrady, Mt.
Zion Academy F Prep star started 17games, shot 45 percent 10.
Milwaukee Danny Fortson, Cincinnati F Traded to Denver 11.
Sacramento Kings Olivier Saint-Jean, San Jose State G/F Shotonly 40 percent 12.
Indiana Austin Croshere, Providence F Played only 243 minutesall season 13.
Cleveland Derek Anderson, Kentucky G Superb Sixth Man, shot 87percent from foul line 14.
Clippers Maurice Taylor, Michigan F Averaged 11.5 points, 4.2rebounds coming off bench 15.
Mavericks Kelvin Cato, Iowa State C Traded to Portland, blocked94 shots 16.
Cleveland Brevin Knight, Stanford G Earned first-teamAll-Rookie honors 17.
Orlando Johnny Taylor, Tenn-Chattanooga F Appeared in only 12games 18.
Portland Chris Anstey, Australia C Averaged 5.9 points, 3.8rebounds 19.
Detroit Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C Appeared in 33 games 20.
Minnesota Paul Grant, Wisconsin C Missed season because ofinjury 21.
New Jersey Anthony Parker, Bradley G Traded to Philadelphia 22.
Atlanta Ed Gray, California G Shot 38 percent FG 23.
Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G Averaged 11.6 points, 3.2assists, 1.5 steals 24.
Houston Rodrick Rhodes, Southern Cal G Shot 37 percent FG 25.
New York John Thomas, Minnesota F Traded to Boston 26.
Miami Heat Charles Smith, New Mexico G Dunbar graduate played atotal of 292 minutes 27.
Utah Jacque Vaughn, Kansas G Firmly planted on Jazz bench 28.
Chicago Keith Booth, Maryland F Appeared in six games 1997 TENDEX Draft This is the way TENDEX predicted the draft would go (comments aregiven for players not mentioned above) No.
Team Player, College Pos.
College rating 1.
San Antonio Tim Duncan, Wake Forest C/F .927, plus-457 2.
Philadelphia Tony Battie, Texas Tech C/F .641, plus-191 3.
Boston Chauncey Billups, Colorado G .562, plus-212 4.
Vancouver Derek Anderson, Kentucky G .726, plus-386 5.
Denver Antonio Daniels, Bowling Green G .576, plus-226 6.
Boston Keith Van Horn, Utah F .738, plus-348 7.
New Jersey Adonal Foyle, Colgate C .669, plus-199 8.
Golden State Ron Mercer Kentucky F .537, plus-226 9.
Toronto Tim Thomas Villanova F .508, plus-108 10.
Milwaukee Kelvin Cato, Iowa State C .671, plus-201 11.
Sacramento Lorenzo Coleman, Tennessee Tech C .694, plus-224Playing overseas 12.
Indiana Olivier St. Jean, San Jose State F .711, plus-321 13.
Cleveland Danny Fortson, Cincinnati F .771, plus-321 14.
Clippers Tracy McGrady, Mt.
Zion Academy F no rating 15.
Dallas Brevin Knight, Stanford G .563, plus-213 16.
Cleveland Tunji Awojobi, Boston U. F .689, plus-239 Notdrafted 17.
Orlando Jerald Honeycutt, Tulane F .572, plus-182 Averaged 6.4points in 58 games 18.
Portland Bubba Wells, Austin Peay F/G .638, plus-248 Set NBArecord for fastest disqualification in a game 19.
Detroit Eric Washington, Alabama G .537, plus-197 Averaged 7.7points in 36 starts 20.
Minnesota Charles Smith, New Mexico G .558, plus-218 21.
New Jersey Scott Pollard, Kansas F/C .636, plus-166 22.
Atlanta Devin Davis, Miami (Ohio) F .599, plus-209 Not drafted 23.
Seattle Bobby Jackson, Minnesota G .562, plus-217 24.
Houston Kebu Stewart, Cal-State Bakersfield F .615, plus-165Grabbed 31 rebounds in 110 minutes 25.
New York Kiwane Garris, Illinois G .537, plus-187 Not drafted 26.
Miami Anthony Parker, Bradley G .522, plus-182 27.
Utah Austin Croshere, Providence F .541, plus-151 28.
Chicago Nate Erdmann, Oklahoma G .506, plus-166 Drafted insecond round 1998 TENDEX Draft List This list includes TENDEX ratings of players eligible for the 1998draft.Players should have plus-100 ratings to be considered draftableand they should be at least plus-200 to be considered lotterymaterial.
College players should progress in their ratings each season.Example: Ball State's Bonzi Wells had a .656-plus 266 as junior.This year as a senior, he improved to .725-plus 335, an improvementof 60 points.
He's rated No.
10 on the TENDEX list.
There are no TENDEX ratings for the four high school playersexpected to be selected in the first round of the draft becausehigh school teams do not keep detailed statistics.
MOSCOW The warmth and lingering daylight of a Moscow summercould make even the harshest periods of Soviet rule seem lessdemented.
The appearance of flowers and fresh fruits and vegetablesin barren markets temporarily lifted the city's spirits, creatingthe illusion that this was just another European capital markingtime until the August holidays.Now it is no longer an illusion.
Moscow may not be Paris orRome, but it is no longer a world apart.
The differences of dress,demeanor and politics that made Moscow so distinctively depressinghave melted away.
From its monumental traffic jams to itssupermarkets, boutiques and elegant restaurants, Moscow is a big,bustling, brash metropolis exploding with energy andentrepreneurial activity.To see the city again after an absence of three years, and tocompare it to the Soviet citadel of 10 years ago where I worked asa correspondent, is to appreciate anew how far Russia has traveledsince the demise of Communism.
The economy is shaky, corruption isubiquitous and the power of the wealthiest bankers and businessmenremains largely unchecked, but these and other deformities shouldnot overshadow the political and economic changes that havetransformed Russia in just a few years.
Almost as swiftly as the1917 Bolshevik Revolution sealed Russia in hermetic isolation, thearrival of democracy and capitalism have set it free and tied it tothe West, culturally and economically.Moscow is the epicenter of change, and the locus of wealth, inthe new Russia.
It will be some time before the rest of thecountry, including St. Petersburg, comes anywhere close to matchingthe standard of living now enjoyed by many Muscovites.One of the best seats for observing the new Russia is on theterrace outside the cavernous McDonald's at Pushkin Square.
Thoughthe novelty of Big Macs has faded, the restaurant still has cachetwith Russians and serves as a mecca for affluent young Muscovites.They arrive in Jeep Cherokees and Toyota Land Cruisers, cell phonesin hand.
The men are dressed nattily in light-weight pleatedtrousers, colorful sport shirts and tasseled loafers, the women inshort skirts, tight tops and stylish Italian shoes.
The scene seemsalmost unimaginable to someone who lived here a decade ago.The McDonald's also attracts working-class customers who havebecome indistinguishable in appearance from their counterparts inLondon or New York.
The nondescript Soviet wardrobe has almostentirely vanished, replaced by jeans, colorful outfits and Nike orReebok shoes.
Even eyeglasses and sunglasses are sleek.
Afterdecades of enforced conformity in everything from clothing topolitics, Russians have seized the chance to assert theirindividuality.Across from the McDonald's is a small plaza that is part of theboulevard that circles central Moscow.
Once a cheerless place witha few scruffy benches and an expanse of dirt, it is now the site ofa leafy beer garden where people congregate after work, engaging ineasy conversation as the daylight stretches far into the evening.The talk is of business and politics, romance and vacation plans.The fear that once permeated Moscow and made it so inhospitable tosuch gatherings is gone.The new Russia is an unfinished work.
It is a land that favorsthe young and those unbroken by Communism and has little patienceor compassion for those unable to adapt.
But Moscow, at least, isincreasingly a city where people can enjoy life.
Considering itshistory, that is no mean feat.The Kansas City Star plans to move the following stories for useby clients of the NYTimes News Service for AMs and PMs of Sunday,June 21.
If you have any questions, please call Kerry Schmidt onthe Star's News Desk at (816) 234-4786.When the wounded Havrum returned from the battlefront, HelenHavrum was waiting.
They had married in 1943, before he went towar.
He was 17 and she was 16.Elzie Havrum worked as a laborer and lift operator at a brickfactory in Fulton for almost 40 years and also ran an auctionbusiness out of a barn behind his house.But when he was buried that day, it was not for the last time.In January 1993, two FBI agents called on Helen Havrum and askedher to sign forms permitting them to exhume her husband's body aspart of an investigation of deaths at Ward Four East.The exhumation in March reminded Havrum of that sorrowful nightnine months earlier when she saw her husband alive for the lasttime.Elzie Havrum had been sick often.
Years of smoking when he wasyounger and many more years of working in the dusty brick factorycontributed to bouts of asthma and emphysema.On the morning of June 14, Elzie Havrum told his wife he neededto go to the hospital because he couldn't catch his breath.
He hadspent three days there a week earlier for similar problems.By evening, he was in a hospital room sitting up, eating andtalking to visitors, his wife recalled.About 11:30 p.m., Havrum received two Tylenol 3 tablets, whichcontain codeine, for his bad back.
Helen Havrum stayed with himuntil about midnight and then went home.Williams summoned the doctor on duty but did not call a CodeBlue, which would have brought in a team of emergency medicalpersonnel.
Williams did nothing to help Havrum until the doctorarrived at 1:15 a.m., the lawsuit says.The doctor, Malti Gohel, said in her notes she found Havrum withno pulse, heartbeat or blood pressure, and she pronounced him dead.Neither did the doctors.
Muthu Krishnan, the doctor who admittedHavrum, said he was in stable condition, but didn't need intensivecare.
In his deposition, Krishnan said Havrum had a lung disorder,rapid breathing, swelling of the legs and feet and a blue tint tohis tongue and extremities.Toxicologists and other experts hired by Havrum and thegovernment sharply disagree on whether his body contained a toxicamount of codeine.When Havrum's body was exhumed, tests ordered by the FBIindicated that his liver contained about six times the amount ofcodeine considered to be fatal.The autopsy did not indicate whether the codeine was given byinjection or in pills.
Christensen estimated it would take 20 pillsto reach that codeine level.The autopsy showed needle marks in Havrum's left buttock andleft elbow, but found no codeine residue.
The lawsuit said hospitalrecords report only a shot to the elbow.Government experts later re-tested samples from Havrum's bodyand concluded that earlier tests were misleading.
Their follow-upstudy indicated he had the equivalent of about two Tylenol 3s inhis system.Further, they said someone dying of a codeine overdose woulddeteriorate over a few hours rather than going into respiratoryfailure so quickly.Bruce Halsey, a Havrum friend, says Havrum deserves some answersabout her husband's death and is entitled to compensation for herloss.When Havrum died six years ago at the Truman Memorial VeteransHospital in Columbia, Mo., at age 66, his wife assumed the causewas natural.Next month, the 71-year-old widow, who has never set foot in acourtroom, puts the United States on trial in a wrongful deathlawsuit that alleges negligence and malpractice at thegovernment-owned hospital.
She seeks unspecified damages.Helen Havrum claims her husband died at the hands of a nurse theFBI investigated but never charged in 33 suspicious deaths at thehospital.
Havrum alleges a codeine overdose killed her husband.The government wanted the 1995 lawsuit dismissed, saying Havrumlacks evidence and waited too long to file.
But U.S. District JudgeNanette K. Laughrey of Kansas City denied the motion Friday.The Havrum trial will be the fullest public exploration of anyof the 33 suspicious deaths, said Gordon Christensen, a doctor atthe veterans' hospital who called public attention to the series ofdeaths in 1992.Relatives of one other veteran filed a lawsuit in St. Louis, buta judge dismissed it last year, saying it missed the statute oflimitations deadline.Patients were 10 times more likely to die while nurse Richard A.Williams was on duty, according to an analysis by Christensen.
Nosimilar pattern emerged for other nurses or medical personnel atthe hospital, he found.Of the 55 persons who died in the ward between March 8 and Aug.22, 1992, 45 died while Williams was on duty, hospital recordsshow.In the lawsuit, Havrum faults the hospital for hiring Williamsafter he had been fired from a job in Springfield, Mo., for failingto give prescribed medicine and falsifying records.Further, Havrum said the hospital was negligent to keep Williamson duty after more than 30 patients died unexpectedly on his watchbetween March and June of 1992.Nurses discussed the pattern of deaths with supervisors in Apriland for several more months before action was taken, the lawsuitsaid.The hospital assigned another nurse to work with Williams inAugust.
But twice during the next week, when the other nurse calledin sick, patients of Williams died.Williams was then transferred out of patient care, and he quitthe hospital in December 1993.
He took a job at the AshlandHealthcare nursing home in Ashland, Mo.Williams, 32, has since moved from job to job in the St. Louisarea.
He would not comment Friday but told a reporter last year hedidn't give Havrum any unauthorized medicine.Kurtz declined to let a reporter interview Havrum or her threechildren.
Christensen said he can imagine the pain waiting hascaused Havrum's family.At her house on the outskirts of Fulton, Helen Havrum isliterally surrounded by memories of her husband.
He built the househimself 32 years ago, and the tidy living room is filled withpictures of him with his wife, children and grandchildren.Helen Havrum stows some of her husband's belongings in a plasticsandwich bag: his worn leather wallet, his watch, a jackknife, twopocket tape measures, even a car wash token.In a little felt-lined case, she keeps the Purple Heart hereceived during World War II in the Philippines.
A skinny teen-agerwhen he went to war, Havrum had his service end when he took afaceful of Japanese shrapnel.
MOREUNDATED When Callaway Golf Co. last month stood up for itsmarketplace rights, it provided a valuable lesson for allbusinesses threatened by regulatory ambition.Callaway also helped the business of golf avert a disastrousclash with the game's stewards.
The last thing the game and theindustry needed was a fight between equipment manufacturers and thegame's ruling authority just as golf is poised for a new era ofgrowth.Unlike most American enterprises, those in the golf businessaren't as worried about government regulators as they are about theU.S.
Golf Association, which is to golf what the FinancialAccounting Standards Board is to accounting.The buzz in golf circles in recent months was that USGA fearsabout high-tech equipment making golf too easy would soon result ina regulatory squeeze play.
Topping the rumor list was a prohibitionon over-sized titanium drivers of the type pioneered by the folksat Callaway.
Another rumor was that the number of clubs allowed forplay would be reduced from 14 to 12, which was perhaps the mostfrightening prospect for most equipment makers.The claim that golf is becoming too easy likely seems fatuous toanyone familiar with the game.
Callaway, however, opted not todepend entirely on common sense and intuition to guide the debate.Rather, it took an industry leadership role by purchasing ads inmajor publications to explain why the rumored concerns of the USGAwere groundless.Pertinent points included in these ads were the fact thathandicaps for average golfers have remained about the same for ageneration while scoring on the pro tour hasn't been improvedappreciably by high-tech weapons.
Byron Nelson's recordsingle-season scoring average, Callaway noted, has remainedunbroken for more than a half a century.The Callaway ad, though, didn't get into golf's centuries-oldevolution.
Golf began as a primitive pastime using wooden-shaftedclubs to hit balls stuffed with feathers around grazing lands.Today's equipment and courses approach a perfection made possibleby modern science and agronomy.
Nevertheless, golf remains probablythe most difficult to master of all the games ever created.Callaway's challenge to the game's clubby mandarins no doubthelped carry the day, because none of the worst of what was fearedcame to pass.
When the USGA used this year's U.S. Open tournamentas the forum to announce its much-feared equipment rules changes,it opted mainly for the status quo.
Equipment currently availableapparently will remain so, and the USGA will merely continue tostudy new developments with an eye on preserving the game'sintegrity.It was both a wise and politic decision because a radical rulesrevamping would have created a bifurcated game.
Many weekendgolfers would have ignored any ban on game-improvement clubs, whichwould have undercut the USGA's ability to rule.
Meanwhile,manufacturers would have buried the USGA in lawsuits, furtherdebilitating the game's governing authority.For its part, Callaway has done golf a great service by standingup for the rights of the game's devotees against overarchingregulators.
By helping to convince the USGA to back off its powertrip, it also did the association a favor, whether the USGArealizes it or not.
And last but not least, it provided business alesson in how to defend its rights from misguided meddlers, bothprivate and public.Since entering the Westchester County market in 1995, DonaldTrump has proposed three golf-course projects.
He now may make afourth proposal, for property he recently purchased along theborder with Putnam County.This is Trump's first foray into Putnam County, where on June 10he paid $1.75 million for 265 acres of rolling hills off IndianHill Road in the town of Putnam Valley.
A small portion of theproperty, about 30 acres, is in Yorktown.
The land had been inforeclosure and was taken over by Bankers Trust Corp.The four Trump development projects make him the leadingdeveloper of new courses within the region, which he believes has apowerful appetite for new courses, especially those of championshipcaliber.
But while his Westchester proposals percolate through thepublic approval process, others also are developing or improvingcourses in the region.In Carmel, in Putnam County, an 18-hole course at the privatelyowned Centennial club opened May 22 and is available to the public.The greens fee is $65 Tuesday through Thursday, including golfcart, and $85 Friday through Sunday.
Nine additional holes areexpected to be ready for play in mid-July.In West Nyack, in Rockland County, the Manhattan Woods Golf Clubis expected to open in July, with play limited to members.Several existing clubs are busy sprucing up to hold theirposition in the midst of all the new competition.
The Ridgeway GolfCourse, a private club in White Plains, for example, is embarkingon a $3.5 million renovation of its clubhouse, expanding its diningroom, installing a new kitchen and upgrading locker-roomfacilities.There are a total of 50 golf courses in Westchester County.Seven are open to the public and the rest are private.At one time, Trump planned to build a golf course in New Castleon land owned by International Business Machines.
But that idea wasdropped when the county acquired the land to build its sixth publiccourse.
The county will soon send out a request for proposals tofind a developer for the project.In Putnam Valley, where Trump bought the 265 acres off IndianHill Road, there have long been rumors that he wanted to build anupscale mall.
He acknowledges that he was approached by a localdeveloper about such a project, but said that he was notinterested.He did say he was negotiating with the New York state Departmentof Transportation to buy an additional 58 acres that would bringhis property to the border of the Taconic State Parkway.
PurdyHalstead, the department spokesman, confirmed that the state hadagreed to sell Trump the land, but added that access to the Taconicwould not be granted.Trump entered the county's real estate market in 1995 when heagreed to purchase Davids Island in New Rochelle.
He planned toturn the abandoned Army post into a luxury residential complex.After that deal fell through, he bought the 213-acre SevenSprings estate, which straddles the Towns of Bedford, New Castleand North Castle.
The estate was originally owned by Eugene Meyer,an industrialist who owned The Washington Post.
His daughter,Katharine Graham, to whom he left the newspaper and estate, wasmarried there in 1940.
The estate's most recent owner wasRockefeller University.Trump plans to convert the estate into a golf course and build10 mansions, he said, and a 38,000-square-foot limestone mansion,built in 1917, will be converted into a clubhouse.
It will includethree dining rooms, a bar and lounge and men's and women's lockerfacilities.The Trump project furthest along in the approval process is thereconstruction of the Briar Hall Country Club in Briarcliff Manor.Trump purchased the property and adjacent parcels around it atotal of 146.5 acres in 1996.Trump plans to build 87 residential units in Briarcliff Manor,30 of which will be in a four-story building adjacent to theclubhouse.
The remaining residences will be clustered in 22 two-and three-unit town houses to be built near the clubhouse.KANSAS CITY, Mo.
The J.C. Nichols Co. board of directors onFriday dismissed a rival offer of $70 a share for the company madelate Wednesday and urged shareholders to vote for the merger withHighwoods Properties Inc., which has offered $65 a share.Nichols said the higher offer, made by Blackacre CapitalManagement of New York, paralleled what Nichols called similarempty overtures made since the Highwoods deal was announced inDecember.Nichols included an extra ballot in the letter so shareholderswho have not voted could cast their vote immediately.Officials with Blackacre said they would decline to commentuntil they saw the Nichols letter.Blackacre, which owns 14 percent of Nichols, made the offercontingent on several conditions.
One centered on Nichols breakingthe Highwoods deal and only paying $2.5 million in termination feesinstead of $17.2 million.Nichols could only pay that fee if shareholders vote down themerger, Nichols said.
And because Blackacre's offer extends only toJuly 2 one day after the Nichols special meeting to consider theHighwoods merger there's no guarantee that Blackacre would makean offer, Nichols said.Nichols also downplayed Blackacre's stated intent to exerciseappraisal rights in the Highwoods deal and the effect it would haveon other shareholders.Highwoods and Nichols struck a deal in which Highwoods would pay$65 cash, shares of Highwoods stock, or a combination of cash andstock for each share of Nichols stock.
Shareholders may elect toreceive up to 100 percent of Highwoods stock.
However, the totaltransaction may comprise only 40 percent cash.Exercising appraisal rights, also known as dissenter rights,gives shareholders who oppose a merger a chance to get a highercash price for the stock after negotiations or an independentappraisal.
Blackacre said that could force some Nicholsshareholders who want cash for their Nichols stock to acceptHighwoods stock instead.Nichols countered that 29 percent of shareholders already hadsaid they wanted all Highwoods stock.
That leaves at least 45percent cash for each of the remaining shareholders, in the eventBlackacre exercises appraisal rights.To make the transaction more tax-friendly, Blackacre proposedthat the employee stock ownership trust buy up to 15 percent of theoutstanding shares from longtime Nichols shareholders.
Blackacrealso suggested that the employee stock trust, which owns about 31percent of Nichols, would remain an owner of 15 percent of thecompany.Nichols said that type of transaction would require InternalRevenue Service approval, which was not guaranteed and which couldtake months to get.At a time when big one-design yachts and all the class rulesthat come with them are dominating sailboat racing, a 26-footerwith an independent pedigree is competing as the little boat thatcould.The boat is a favorite to win the sport-boat division at BlockIsland Race Week again when event begins on Monday on Rhode IslandSound with 133 sailboats expected over all.
One of the mostcompetitive classes will be among the 14 sport boats all fromproduction classes trying to unseat the free-spirited Wai Rere(pronounced Why-REAR-ee).
The craft has no class rules other thanto go fast.The boat's New Zealand designer, Steve Thompson, has built onlythe one boat.
Formerly named Tom Tom Taxi, the boat was in NewZealand when the Bouzaids took it for a sail.
By the end of theday, the couple had bought the boat for $25,000, a good buy.
Mostsport boats the modern 25-to-35-foot open-cockpit racers costmore like $50,000 to $80,000.Wai Rere has a oversized ballast bulb at the end of its finkeel, and a circular, bowl-shaped hull that likes to heel ratherthan stay flat in a breeze.
The way the Bouzaids see it, that makesthe boat easier to sail than its contemporaries.The closest thing to it in competition today is the Viper 830GR,a larger and more expensive version of Wai Rere.
Also a Thompsoncreation, the sailboat is built in Tiverton, R.I., as a productionmodel with its own set of class rules.
Two Viper 830's are expectedat Block Island, and both have names that indicate a challenge tothe Bouzaids' flying fish: one is High Voltage, and the other,Snakebite.The Newport Bermuda Race got off to a smooth start Fridayafternoon for the fleet of 161 boats that began the race in adwindling 7- to 9-knot southwesterly breeze off Newport, R.I.Boomerang, the competition's record-holder, needs to finish inless than 57 hours 31 minutes 50 seconds, the pace it set in the635-mile voyage two years ago.
Rima and Deep Powder, two new60-foot yachts designed by Bruce Farr Associates of Annapolis,Md., are favorites to win on corrected time under the InternationalMeasurement System, the handicap racing division in which they arecompeting.The biennial competition draws both amateur cruising boats andstate-of-the-art race boats.
Jim Mertz, an 87-year-old yachtsmanfrom Rye, N.Y., is competing in his 27th Bermuda race.
He isskipper of Symphony, a Beneteau 42.Cable Wireless Adventurer, the odd-shaped, 115-foot powerboatattempting to break a 83-day record around the world, is expectedto arrive in New York City around 8 a.m., Eastern time, on Tuesday.The custom-made British boat left Gibraltar on April 19 in its26,000-mile quest to beat a round-the-world time set in 1960 by thenuclear-powered submarine the USS Triton.It is expected to leave New York on Wednesday morning for thelast leg of its journey, a 3,000-mile trans-Atlantic voyage back toGibraltar.
The powerboat will be docked at North Cove Yacht Harbor,a marina near the World Financial Center.Also at North Cove Yacht Harbor will be Young America, the75-foot training boat for the New York Yacht Club's America's Cupchallenge in 1999-2000.
The white-hulled sailboat was formerlynamed Spirit of Unum, a trial horse in San Diego for the PACT `95cup syndicate.
It is expected in New York from Newport, R.I., onThursday, and will stay through July 4.
It will take potentialdonors and sponsors for a sail.TOPEKA, Kan. A federal court jury on Friday rejected BillKoch's claims that two of his brothers defrauded him of as much as$2 billion when he sold his stock in the family business, KochIndustries of Wichita, Kan.The jury's unanimous action ended an 11-week trial that drewcuriosity-seekers throughout and called into question the integrityof the country's second-largest private company.It also highlighted a 15-year feud between four brothers in oneof America's richest families: Bill, 57, and Frederick, 64, vs.Charles, 62, and David, who is Bill's twin.All are celebrities in their own worlds.
Bill, a Palm Beach,Fla., resident, won the America's Cup in 1992.
Frederick is an artdealer who lives in Monaco.
Charles is the company's chiefexecutive officer and the only brother to remain in Wichita, wherethey were raised.
David is a vice president who operates in NewYork's high society.Since 1983, when they sold their stock for $1.1 billion, Billand Frederick have been battling Charles and David.
Soon after thesale, Bill claimed that Charles and David hid information about thecompany to devalue the stock.Bill shook his head once when he read the jury's verdict form.He was the only brother in Topeka for the verdict.Bill Koch, vowing an appeal, continued to attack the company andhis brothers.
He said his case was crippled by the judge'srestrictions on what claims his lawyers could make and how theycould cross-examine Charles and David.Bill Koch compared his legal battle to the sailing competitionsthat led to his taking the America's Cup.But jurors, who deliberated over two days, said the evidence wasnot difficult to sort through because they had heard it repeatedly.Jurors also got an earful of family gossip, but insisted itplayed no part of their deliberations.
For instance, they heardabout a terrible argument at a Christmas dinner in which Billallegedly blamed his mother for all his problems.
They heard abouthow one cousin, 89-year-old Howard Marshall II, married 26-year-oldPlayboy centerfold Anna Nicole Smith.The Koch name will continue to be dissected in court.
Bill Kochis suing the company on allegations Koch Industries stole oil fromAmerican Indians.
That case will go to trial next year.Rosser pointed out that the lawsuits are two of 10 that BillKoch has filed against Charles and David Koch and the company.UNDATED Khakis.
They were once considered classic, classy,preppy and, well, more than a little boring.
They have long beenwhat men with traditional fashion tastes wore sometimes too short with blue blazers.
Ditto for women in loafers with babystrollers.But khakis began to take on a glossier, hipper image a few yearsago.
Designer Karl Lagerfeld, in his unique talent for sweeping upstreet fashion, did khakis for Chanel in the mid '90s.
Then therewas Seinfeld's buddy George bumbling about in Dockers' khakis.
Theybecame the acceptable fallback for business casual when peopledidn't know what to wear.And if not exactly high fashion, they are stylized in a varietyof trendy shapes.
Liz Claiborne is doing them in three silhouettesfor women.
The Gap ad shows wide legs and hip riders.But are they cutting-edge?
Hardly.
Khakis date to mid-18thcentury British armies and colonialism.
The World War I soldiersliked them enough to tote them home with them from battle.Part of the appeal in a busy world today is probably theversatility.
They look good with a white T-shirt, a navy blazer, abutton-down or silk shirt.Skip them for most weddings, fancy parties, executive boardmeetings or a reunion of beatniks, but if you don't know what towear otherwise, keep khakis handy.The next time you're scrounging through your crowded closet insearch of, say, your best white pants, it's OK to feel a touch ofenvy toward singer Mariah Carey.Pity the poor dear.
She has to put on a robe and ride theelevator down, just to get dressed.UNDATED: Perhaps you find the ups and downs of hemlinesconfounding.
Maybe the blimp-shaped shoe-topping skirts and fuzzyhigh-necked sweaters from fall fashion runways unnerve you.
Or withall the choices, you simply don't know what to wear.It has made an impressive return to fashion's front ranks thisyear after dawdling for a time in the shadows behind the T-shirt,tank top and turtleneck sweater.Indeed, the white shirt is easy to understand and it'sappropriate almost anywhere.
Ask actress Sharon Stone, who skippedbeaded designer gowns to wear her husband's white shirt with VeraWang's silk wrapped skirt at the most recent Oscar presentations.Draped nonchalantly, with the top buttons left casually undone,the shirt remains one of the sexiest garments ever, showing coylyfrom beneath a pinstriped trouser suit or topping well-worn jeans.The basic shirt can be purchased at garage sales for a song andin couture departments at three figure prices.
It is thequintessential wardrobe staple.
It's an item for all seasons.
Andmost closets have at least a couple tucked in the back.They tend to be sleek and short so that they don't bulge overthe hips under a pair of trousers or skirts.
(To update your oldones, crop them at the hips or relegate them to the role ofswimsuit cover-up or tunic for skinny pants.
)For summer, many are revamped in a variety of textiles andshapes.
Donna Karan did a shirt in white organza.
White washablelinen shirts come from Kiko at less than $55.
Emanuel has a trimlinen tunic.Certainly, for most people, the white shirt conjures memories: around collared blouse slipped under a school jumper, a whitemonogram button-down from college days, a first work shirt and aboyfriend's shirt slipped over jeans on a Sunday morning.But well beyond modern times, the shirt has had a significanthistory in the fashion archives.
For women, it began in the late18th century when they first appropriated men's riding gear fortheir own outings.
At the end of the 19th century, as sportswomen,secretaries and shopkeepers moved out into the world, they emulatedthe men's tailored style.They wore shirtwaists or shirts often with tailored coats andboaters.
But they also wore corsets and petticoats underneath,Alison Lurie notes in her 1980 book, The Language of Clothes.
Theywere liberated from the waist up.In the '20s the shirt took on the Buster Brown and Peter Pancollars.
In the '30s Marlene Dietrich gave men's clothing such asthe shirt and tie an elegance, sophistication and knockoutsexuality.But soon after, the dress-for-success philosophy that held thatwomen could be more effective in the workplace if they dressed inmanly fashion arrived.
It ushered in the no-nonsense button-downcotton shirts, often decked with little silk scarf ties.And so it went.
In the '80s and '90s, the shirt still hasn'tlost its classic, good-to-have handy status, whether it flappedover Karl Lagerfeld's tights in '87 or peered from beneath a powersuit or tucked into Gap khakis in the '90s.As for guidelines for the shirt today, buy the best quality youcan afford.
If it's cotton, keep the shirt sleek with minimaljewelry.
If in a fancier fabric, it may be embellished for afterfive.Consider how it will fit into the rest of your wardrobe.
Anddon't be afraid to be adventurous.
You can't go too far wrong.When the pool at Hampton Commons in Hampton Township, N.J.,opened last month, residents of the 300-unit condominiumassociation were reminded that only unit owners whose maintenancecharges were current would be admitted.
Bathers in arrears, theboard noted, could be fined $25.Hampton Commons appears to be on the leading edge of a trend incommunity relations providing residents with information andinteraction over the Internet as a supplement to the moretraditional ways of communicating with them.Increasingly, boards are discovering that what the CommunityAssociations Institute Web site does for its members, individualbuildings can do on a smaller scale for their unit owners.Hampton Commons, for example, posts on its Web site the minutesof every board meeting, reports prepared by committees and noticesthat range from who may use the pool to when shrubs displaced bysewer line work will be replaced.In addition, the board also posts bylaws, rules and regulationsand other information relating to the finances of the association.And, like most Web sites, the Hampton Commons site also provideslinks to other Web sites like local schools, governmental agenciesand, of course, the Community Associations Institute which, inturn, provides links to hundreds of other related sites.While establishing a presence on the Internet is neithertechnically difficult nor excessively costly, there are at leasttwo issues that must be addressed by any co-op or condominium boardcontemplating such a project.At Hampton Commons, for example, a computer-savvy resident,Bonnie Venable, volunteered her time and expertise to construct theassociation's site and keep it current.And for co-ops and condominiums in New York, the Council of NewYork Cooperatives recently began providing member buildings withthe ability to establish a professionally designed site at minimalcost.Lloyd Chrein, president of Chrein.com, the company that designedthe council's Internet site, said that buildings that sign up forCNYCSites will have a site designed for them that will be linkeddirectly with the council's existing site.At present, Chrein said, the basic package being offered byCNYCSites allows members to choose from three predesigned templatesinto which individual buildings can insert whatever informationthey choose.Generally, Chrein said, the first page the home page contains information about the building, pictures or illustrations,and links to other Internet sites.
The second page, he said,usually contains a bulletin board for listings of meetings,activities and events and for posting apartments for sale orsublet.Additional pages can be added so that other information including building bylaws, proprietary leases and rules andregulations can be instantly accessed by clicking on a link tothe desired page.For members of the Council of New York Cooperatives, he said,the one-time charge for designing a two-page site is $400.
Inaddition, Chrein said, member sites can be updated monthly for anannual fee of $175.
Additional information may be obtained bycalling CNYCSites at (212) 787-3462.KANSAS CITY, Mo.
First of all, when you hear about 65-year-oldLou Joline competing in 100-mile treks across the mountainous West,or his goal, some two-thirds completed, of running in a marathon inevery state, do not become despondent.But in the face of Joline's accomplishments, the danger isyou'll shake your head in despair, then slump back into yourrecliner.OK, so here's Joline's story.
About 20 years ago he startednoticing an expanding paunch, so familiar to many in their 40s andbeyond.
To be perfectly honest, he needed to drop 35 pounds.Joline started running, and little by little he lost the extrapounds.
He's stayed a trim 130 ever since.
About three years intohis exercise regimen, while in Lawrence for a 10-kilometer(6.2-mile) race, he noticed the event also included a marathon.
Hedecided to give it a shot.
He did quite well, considering he hadn'tplanned to run 26 miles that day.Now he's completed 61 marathons in 31 states.
For a realchallenge he runs races up and down Pikes Peak or enters 100-milecompetitions that grind on for 20 hours or more, like the onecoming up in August at Leadville, Colo.
There's something wonderfulabout running and clambering through a mountain forest, Jolinesaid.
Not to mention incredibly challenging.But don't worry too much about Joline.
In fact, at this pointyou can forget his story entirely and listen to Kristine Clark.She's director of sports nutrition at Pennsylvania State Universityand one of the judges who pored over thousands of entries in theKnox NutraJoint Senior Fitness Search.As people get older, they require fewer calories, Clark said.Cutting back can mean even a small reduction of 100 or 200 caloriesa day.Joline, a grandfather himself, agrees, of course.
His advice forgetting more exercise is to make it a social event.
He belongs tothree running clubs and is president of the Kansas City Track Club.Joline advises getting out three times a week to start, perhaps30 minutes each time, and walking or jogging at a pace that allowsyou to converse.
You have to make some concessions to age, he said,such as allowing for more time for warmup and recovery.It seemed Snyderman was destined to become a doctor.
She'd beensaying so at least since third grade.
Her father and grandfatherwere doctors; it was how the family defined itself.She decided on a specialty in ears, nose and throat, just as herfather did, and was the first female surgeon at the University ofArkansas in Little Rock.
Now, at 46 and with three young children,she's decided an important focus for her is women's health,especially women over 40, a topic she thinks was long neglected bythe medical profession.Women who understand that will more likely assert themselveswhen it counts, Snyderman said.
Health care for women in their 40sand later, with the cultural changes over the last generation,isn't getting any easier to navigate.Snyderman says her message is a call to arms for women to beproactive about their health care, especially as they age and theirrisk of health problems increases.
Women in their 40s start to feeland see changes in their bodies unlike any time since puberty:aching backs, wrinkling skin, sleeplessness and potentially moreserious changes.It's a crucial time for women to take charge, Snyderman said.Women should, first, trust their gut instincts about their healthand, second, foster a good relationship with their doctors, shesaid.Women have to be able to talk comfortably with their doctors, totell them what they think about undergoing certain tests andtreatments, she said.That women are the chief nurturers in families often means theyneglect their own health while caring for others, Snyderman said.The result is they don't get prompt medical attention and,ultimately, their families suffer.When Snyderman gives talks around the country, women ask aboutthe health changes they're experiencing and ones they'reanticipating, with some trepidation.
As a resource for such women,Snyderman wrote Dr. Nancy Snyderman's Guide to Good Health, a bookgeared to women that covers such issues as heart disease, cancer,menopause, aging and preventive health care.Snyderman notes in the book that some health changes areinevitable and some are exacerbated by a variety of bad habits,such as too much caffeine, sun and alcohol as well as poor posture,bad diets and lack of exercise.And she tries to dispel common myths about women's health.
One,that because women live much longer than men, their health careisn't as big a worry.
Actually, Snyderman said, women don't livemuch longer than men and many, at the end of life, must deal withwidowhood, dependency and degenerative conditions.Two, that women's poor health is related mostly to theirreproductive organs.
While it's true that women need health carefor maladies specific to their gender, it's also true that theleading causes of death for men and women are the same heartdisease, cancer and stroke and in the same order, Snyderman said.Snyderman finds that women, especially those past 40, are hungryfor information about preventing illness.
Although her book goesinto more detail about prevention, Snyderman's brief advice isthis: Drink water, don't smoke, watch your diet and exercise.Women also want to learn more about alternative health care,Snyderman said.
She encourages them to consider such options, butonly when it seems reasonable.
For instance, she said, takingechinacea for a cold or trying chiropractic or acupuncture for backpain would make sense.But she sees parallels between her TV work and regulardoctoring, and she appreciates the opportunity to reach so manypeople.- Americans grill 2.3 times a week, according to thegrillmeisters at Weber.
(Compare that with just three times a yearfor the folks in the United Kingdom.
)First it was Saveur magazine, and now the June issue of Food Wine magazine features a recipe for B.B's Lawnside Spicy AppleCider Barbecue Sauce.
The article, written by cookbook authorSteven Raichlen, explores the four major styles of barbecue sauce:Kansas City, Texas, North Carolina and Memphis.Not just for breakfast anymore ... Susan Moehl and PenniJohnson, the proprietors of Southmoreland, a Mobil Four-Starbed-and-breakfast on Kansas City's Country Club Plaza, are dishingup a barbecue breakfast for their guests from May to October.
Thewomen use a hand-laid limestone barbecue pit to whip up suchbreakfast barbecue meats as pork chops or ribs to ham or sausagekebabs.
They also sear Texas toast on the grill.Cooking teacher and cookbook author Steven Raichlen spent threeyears traveling the globe exploring the wide world of barbecueculture for his much anticipated Barbecue Bible (Workman).This month you can find Raichlen's Greek-inspired recipes forGrill-Roasted Leg of Lamb with Lemon Butter, Greek-Style Garlic andLemon Roasted Potatoes and Swordfish Souvlaki on the Internet atwww.weberbbq.com.I've noticed several trend trackers hailing Brazilian barbecue(known in that country as churrasco) as the next hot food trendcoming down the pike.
If a recent family vacation to Denver is anyindication, it's already starting to happen.Three Rodizio (pronounced ho-dee-zee-oh) restaurants arethriving.
On two nights I enjoyed the full-blown meal, a staggeringvariety of meats from a skewer including picanha (aBrazilian-style beef filet), lamb, fish and delectable nibbles ofbacon-wrapped turkey.A $15.95 per person price tag included gaucho-clad waiters and astaggering self-serve salad bar with such exotic goodies as freshbuffalo mozzarella, quail's eggs and feijoada, a black-bean stew.But formal documents show that state officials had known thetakeover would result in millions of dollars in benefits to Lilcoexecutives, even if the exact amount was not specified.
The recordsinclude Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Lilco'stakeover agreement, its agreement to merge with Brooklyn Union Gasand correspondence from the Long Island Power Authority, the stateagency that negotiated the takeover.The dispute has clouded the governor's triumph in revamping LongIsland's electricity service at long last and delivering a 20percent cut in what, under Lilco, had been the highest bills in thecontinental United States.The payouts, which also included $25 million to 25 other topLilco executives, bolstered the central argument of takeoveropponents, who contend that the $7 billion deal was a giveaway toLilco that burdens electricity customers with debt.
The criticscharge that Pataki and his aides purposely ignored the compensationissue for fear it would jeopardize the takeover.Pataki has ordered the state attorney general and the PublicService Commission to investigate the payouts and demanded that theformer Lilco chairman, Dr. William Catacosinos, return the moneyand quit as chairman of Lilco's successor, Marketspan.
The powerauthority, which hired Marketspan to run the old Lilco system, iswithholding $1 million a month and imposing other penalties, andthe state Assembly has set a hearing on the matter for Tuesday.Pataki and his power authority chairman, Richard Kessel, insistthat the payouts were surreptitious and violated the takeover andmerger pacts.
They contend that Lilco executives were not entitledto severance payments because they all automatically got new jobsat Marketspan and never lost a day's pay.Pataki and Kessel declined to comment directly about what thedocuments disclosed about the compensation entitlements.On March 25, 1998, opponents of the deal released Bonnifield's1994 memo on the $10 million-plus golden parachute.
In an interviewat that time, Kessel expressed no surprise about the memo.
He didnot argue, as he does now, that such payments were prohibited, nordid he indicate any plans to try to stop them.Kessel now says he does not recall why he did not take amilitant stance in March and April against the planned Lilcopayments.WALDO, Fla. -- Jim Hooten stood under the 100-year-old oak treesthat tower over his modest wood frame house, watching a wall oforange flames rage through the dense stand of pines that growsnearly to his back door.Within minutes, he feared, his house and all he had worked forwould be gone, consumed by the latest wave of wildfires that haveswept across nearly 50,000 acres of bone-dry Florida the pastmonth.
Scattered showers Thursday night and Friday weakened thefires but did little to end the dangerous drought conditions.By Saturday, the fires in 34 of Florida's 67 counties haddestroyed about 12,000 acres of timber worth an estimated $10million, injured at least 14 people and killed one person, damagedabout 80 buildings and 65 vehicles, and left at least 1,000 peopletemporarily homeless.
Across the line in Georgia, wildfires hadburned another 13,600 acres, including an estimated $14 millionworth of timber, near the Okefenokee Swamp.A half-mile away, Tammy Nichols and several other members of aFlorida Division of Forestry firefighting team were workingfrantically to make sure that didn't happen.A mile away from the firefighters at Waldo City Hall, MayorLouie Davis, City Councilmember Rodney Estes and City Manager LeeVincent came to the sobering realization that the fire just mightconsume their entire town, burning the homes and businesses of the1,100 residents.It was Wednesday afternoon, and they had just ordered the secondevacuation of Waldo in as many days.
Fortunately, most of theresidents on the side of town nearest the blaze heeded the warningsand left.
Most went to stay with family or friends or to motels innearby Gainesville.By 3 p.m., winds were gusting out of the southwest at nearly 20mph.
The fire was raging dangerously close to a half-dozenresidences, and if it managed to cross a paved road on the town'soutskirts, quaint, sleepy Waldo would likely burn to cinders.
Theflames would be fueled by the clapboards of the town's rustic,wood-sided homes and the hardwood trees that shadow its streets.Mayor Davis and a few others hopped in a car and drove towardthe billowing column of smoke.Hooten thought the same thing as he jammed his pickup into gearand headed up his dusty driveway.Exhausted fire crews redoubled their efforts.
The wind shifted alittle bit.
The scorching sun, which has dried the staterelentlessly through three nearly rainless months, dipped into thehaze of smoke surrounding Waldo and raced to the horizon.
As itdropped, temperatures inched down from the 100-degree mark.
As theland cooled ever so slightly, a bit of moisture crept back into theair.It's been an odd weather year for Waldo.
All winter, the townwas inundated by unusually heavy rains.
Flooding hit a few homes,tore up some roads, and caused major problems at the wastewatertreatment plant.
Waldo was part of a federal disaster reliefdeclaration for the flooding.For hours on end, Monahan and others kept answering thetelephones.
The calls came from people they know by name and faceresidents kept out because the fire danger was still too high.Some left behind pets and were worried the animals hadn't beenfed.
Estes, a high school economics teacher, volunteered to go tothe houses in question to feed and water the pets.Vincent figures he slept about five or six hours total onTuesday and Wednesday nights.
Tuesday he got home for a few hoursbefore returning at dawn Wednesday.
Wednesday night he slept inPolice Chief D.W. Smith's office.On the fireline, Tammy Nichols and her team members didn't sleepat all.
They came on duty Wednesday morning and went straightthrough until Thursday morning when they finally got a break.Nichols drives a bulldozer, cutting fire lines to try to stopthe flames from advancing.
She wears a fire-retardant jumpsuit overher pants and T-shirt, along with a hard-hat, a face shield andheavy leather gloves.Wednesday the flames jumped the fire breaks they were trying tocut through the parched undergrowth.
Bulldozers bogged down, eventhrew a heavy metal track.
Mechanics had to brave the flames torepair the machines.Nichols and the other forest service firefighters carry afolded-up fire safety tent made of a space-age aluminum-foil typematerial.
If the fire engulfs them, they are supposed to jump offtheir 'dozers, run back into the fire line they've cut andhopefully find a spot where the fire has already passed.
Then theybreak out the tent and jump inside.Mark Hebb, a forestry division district manager, ambled over tothe crew, who were gathered around a pickup waiting for a van tocarry them home for a few hours' rest.The fire raged through the 40 acres of pine trees that JimHooten was hoping to harvest in a few years as a nice addition tohis retirement income.
It burned up a feed shed and two barns fullof farm equipment, antiques and family heirlooms.But the family home still stands, untouched, a black fire linestill smoldering in the pines that march to within 20 feet of thehouse.To an outsider, the KB drugstores here were nothing but boxybuildings with funny purple signs a bit of an eyesore next to themansions along St. Charles Avenue.
But natives loved them, and whenthe Pennsylvania-based national chain Rite Aid bought them out,many vowed they would never shop there again.Why all the fuss over a dying drugstore chain?
Because a battlefor the soul of New Orleans is being waged, and, for the moment,the outsiders are winning.At least a dozen locally owned institutions have sold out orclosed in the past three years, and national chains, onceconspicuously absent here, are arriving in droves.
The likes of theHouse of Blues, Pottery Barn and Starbucks opening this summer are making the city feel more ... American.
To many in thisaggressively untrendy town, Americanization represents a fate worsethan hurricanes, heat waves and bad oysters.In 1994, the House of Blues, a slick, no-expenses-sparednightclub chain owned, in part, by Dan Aykroyd, opened in theFrench Quarter.
The club immediately stole big local acts such asthe Neville Brothers from the considerably less glitzy local iconTipitina's.
The old club almost closed.In May, Maison Blanche, another local department store on CanalStreet, announced it had been sold to Dillard's Inc.
The Arkansaschain probably will close the downtown store and rename the ones inthe suburbs.This summer, Starbucks, the ubiquitous Seattle coffeehousechain, will open in Uptown, a tony, residential area near AudubonPark served by locally owned coffeehouses with strong followings.Some are wondering whether Starbucks will go head to head in theFrench Quarter with the famous Cafe Du Monde, home of chicorycoffee and sugary beignets.Although proud provincialism has played a role in keeping thenational chains at bay, pure economics are involved as well.
Afterthe oil bust of the late 1970s and early 1980s, national companieswere afraid to set up shop in New Orleans.
Now that the city isenjoying a rebound, it seems as good a place as any to do business.To do that, PJ's plans to emphasize its uniquely New Orleansspirit with one-on-one service and a slower pace.Jordan argues that some local businesses have improved, thanksto new competition.
Tipitina's, which almost closed when the Houseof Blues came to town, is thriving again by concentrating onlesser-known, locally popular bands.
They've even opened a secondlocation.On the other hand, Terrence Fitzmorris, director of the Centerfor the Study of New Orleans and the Mississippi River at TulaneUniversity, said he thinks people are overreacting.Besides, he said, some of the outsiders were invited in.
Stateand local leaders OK'd plans for a huge, land-based casino near theFrench Quarter.
After a two-year battle, Harrah's Jazz Co., whichwent bankrupt operating a temporary casino while building apermanent one, has been given the go-ahead to finish constructionon the new casino and open for business.JACKSONVILLE Mop-up duty doesn't lead to firefighting glory,but someone has to do it.Mop up means bulldozing street-wide paths through dense forestto separate the charred land from the green, hosing down dry edgesand extinguishing sudden flares.Kinkaid, a state forest firefighter, was joined Friday by fivefirefighters from South Florida who pulled into their hotels at 2a.m yesterday morning.All told, 12 firefighters from South Florida three from PalmBeach County have traveled north to help battle the raging brushfires.
They join crews from other states that are are monitoringmore than 7,000 square acres here.The team split into day and night shifts.
The first hooked uparound noon with crews from as far away as South Carolina andKentucky.Despite temperatures striking 103 Friday, a record high forJacksonville, firefighters spent the day preventing rather thanputting out flames.
Thanks to little wind, the few fires thatpopped up were quickly checked, and no new fires began.Lt.
Brad Havrilla of Palm Beach County spent most of the dayfighting through forest to water down smoldering pine.
Heconcentrated on the perimeter of a 12-acre area that caught firetwo days ago.A man whose Alachua home was in the path of a wildfire Wednesdaywouldn't leave.
He had greeted firefighters with an M-16, accordingto a firefighter who talked the man into letting his wife leave thehome.MERCURY, Nev. To visit the Nevada Test Site, the nation'sprimary nuclear proving ground for more than four decades, andstand near a crater blasted deep into the desert bedrock, is anexercise in silence.The dry lake beds and thorny plains where scientists detonatednuclear weapons during the Cold War are now, in peacetime, mostlydevoid of activity and hundreds of sheds and warehouses that oncehoused personnel and research facilities are now eerily empty.In an effort to generate money and promote economic developmenthere in southern Nevada following a moratorium on nuclear testingin 1992, the government has begun to transform parts of this base where the staff has been cut from 10,000 to 2,500 into a businesspark of sorts.Companies are invited to open facilities at the test site whose main entrance is near this small town 65 miles north of LasVegas with the unusual lures of restricted access and absence ofneighbors who, for example, might complain about the use of toxicchemicals.The three-year-old program is similar to the DefenseDepartment's effort to help communities hurt by militarydownsizing.
But there are some important differences: The test siteis under no threat of closing, has no plans to sell off land and ismandated to stay ready for nuclear tests in case internationaltensions rise.The only tenant so far is Fluid Tech, a company that cleansequipment contaminated with low-level radiation.
To its relief, ithas found a warm welcome inside a massive abandoned hangar withsteel blast doors, cleaning bays and an overhead crane.
There, inthe '60s, scientists tried to develop a nuclear-powered rocket.Fluid Tech's staff of about 40 workers and those governmentemployees not housed on the base live in such surroundingcommunities as Las Vegas, Amargosa Valley, Tonopah and Pahrump, allwithin two hours' drive of the test-site entrance.One company that expects to move to the test site within thenext two years is Kistler Aerospace, which is planning to launchsatellites from the base on the world's first fully reusablerocket.
Launches require restricted airspace and dozens of squaremiles of flat open land for the rockets to return if all goeswell using a parachute and airbags.The company anticipates building a launch pad and severalbuildings for flight control and assembly, representing a $45million investment.
Robert Wang, chairman of Kistler Aerospace,said that his company was attracted by the availability ofutilities (unlike remote sites elsewhere) and equipment and thepotential of hiring part-time skilled personnel.Other businesses expressing interest in signing on for one ofthe various vacant buildings or at an industrial park plannedaround the base airport include a company that recycles carbon, aliquid-oxygen manufacturer and a company that is developinghydrogen enriched natural gas for cars.
One firm that isconsidering building a solar power plant on the test site is nownegotiating with potential customers.Businesses that move into the test site must still get statelicensing and follow environmental laws, which are generally lessrestrictive in isolated locations.
They must also get approval froma board, which weighs such factors as the impact of the business onnational security, safety, interference with a neighboring AirForce base and the creation of high technology jobs that could goto laid-off test site workers.That eliminates tennis-shoe manufacturers, for example,according to Richard Betteridge, an Energy Department official whois working to bring new activities to the test site.
Even in theunlikely event that such a business would want to be so far from acity where workers could live, its presence at the test site wouldnot benefit the government's mission to create skilled jobs anddiversify southern Nevada's growing, but still casino-dependent,economy, he said.Among the market offerings are some for only temporary use, suchas an existing hazardous chemical spill center, which companieslike DuPont could lease for a few weeks to conduct safety drills.And officials at the test site are also trying to attract moregovernment work, perhaps an antiterrorism center where engineerswould blow up mock buildings to learn how to build with moredurable materials.
Universities are welcome to use the test sitefor research, an Energy Department said.But much of the test site will probably never be considered forcommerce.
Parts of the base are reserved for secret militaryprojects, future nuclear detonations and an undergroundnuclear-waste depository called Yucca Mountain, which is scheduledto open in the next century.
In addition, there are occasionalnuclear experiments not involving a chain reaction, crater fields,and a small portion of land contaminated by radiation.Commercial development is a profound transformation for the testsite, which has been the nation's primary venue for nuclear weaponstesting since 1951.
Over the years, 928 nuclear devices have beendetonated, at first in the atmosphere, then deep underground afterthe harmful effects of radiation became better known.The work stoked the economy in the neighboring rural countiesand gave life to Mercury, the restricted government town on thetest site at which hundreds of scientists once spent the night indormitories.
After the Cold War ended and much of the staff left,the town's movie theater and bowling alley were closed.If nuclear tests resume, the Energy Department says newcompanies at the test site will not be thrown out nor becontaminated by fallout.
But some may be kept from their facilitiesas a precaution for, at most, a few days when tests are scheduled.It is too soon to say whether there will be much of a demand inthe business world to locate at the test site.
However, Carlsonexplained that his goals in marketing the base were fairly modest.Most of them didn't know a blue line from a stretch mark.
Theydidn't know if Mike Eruzione was the team captain or the kid whodelivered the pizza.Thus, when a team of overachieving U.S. college kids upset themighty Soviet Union in the Olympics semifinals in Lake Placid,N.Y., people across America cheered and hugged one another withpride.
Hockey had a golden page to add to its memory book.Alas, today in Lyon, France, the World Cup soccer match betweenthe United States and Iran will kindle interest, but it lacks therelative drama of that night in Lake Placid.From a Biblical standpoint certainly, from this corner of theglobe the match is not like David and Goliath.
It's more likecold-shouldered Cains and Abels.Thus, to ask this team of U.S. soccer players, who fight a dailybattle for recognition on their own, to shoulder the country'spolitical pride seems grossly unkind.There will be no banners, Lyon's gendarmes have decreed.Security has been stepped up around town.
Effigies of Jimmy Carter,we also assume, will not be gassed and burned.If the Olympics has taught us anything in 2,000 years, it's thatsports and politics have always been intermingled.
Jesse Owens andHitler in Berlin.
The bloody Hungary and Soviet Union water polomatch in Melbourne.
The boycott in Moscow, and again in LosAngeles.In a perfect world, the only storyline today would be whetherStewart or surfer-dude teammate Frankie Hejduk can muster scoringchances against Iran's Ahmad Reza Abedzadeh.Millions of Americans will be watching today.
To them, TeamSatan has a score to settle.It might be boorish.
It might be immensely politicallyincorrect.
But for U.S. soccer, it's a captive audience.
Andthere's no 10-run rule.ALBANY, N.Y. Gov.
George Pataki began the year with a modestlist of things he wanted out of the Legislature: end parole forviolent felons, permit charter schools, allow casino gambling,toughen penalties for juvenile criminals.He got none of those.
But while the 1998 legislative session,which ended Friday, may look like a bust for the Republicangovernor, it gave him a few handy issues to use as he runs forre-election this year, particularly the timeworn theme thatDemocrats are soft on crime.He signaled as much in a news conference on Friday afternoon inwhich he reviewed a session that was widely seen as one of theleast eventful in memory.
Pataki bemoaned the gridlock in theCapitol, and blamed the Democrats who control the Assembly.Pataki's political advisers calculated that there was not muchhe needed, politically, from this session, and they may have beenright.
Polls show him with huge leads over his Democratic rivals,and the governor seemed to spend more time this year touring thestate to promote his record than working in the Capitol to enhanceit.Even his allies in the Legislature say that except for theparole issue, he did not break a sweat this year lobbying for hisagenda.He can tell communities in western New York and the Catskillsthat see casinos as their best hope for economic development thathe tried, but he did not push the issue hard enough to raise theire of conservatives who oppose gambling.
And he can tell minoritycommunities that favor charter schools that he fought their fight,only to be thwarted by the Assembly's top Democrats, though theRepublicans who control the Senate were in no hurry to go down thatroad, either.In a way, it was a year made for political posturing, and notjust because of the coming election.
In years past, lawmakers oftenhitched smaller issues to larger ones, giving them leverage to getmore things done.But this year, for the first time since Pataki was elected in1994, there were no momentous issues hanging over the lawmakers'heads, no budget crisis, no plan for deep cuts, no rent controlsready to expire, no deadline for welfare reform.
As legislatorsnoted repeatedly all year, there was nothing that, for either side,absolutely had to be done.In the final days of the session, there were a few notablepieces of legislation passed, including one requiring that peopleinfected with HIV be reported to the state Health Department andtheir sexual partners be notified.
Lawmakers also agreed on aprogram of inspections and emissions testing for heavy trucks andbuses, something long sought by environmentalists.
And a deal wasstruck on the management of the new Hudson River park in Manhattanthat places some limits on development along the river.For the Assembly Democrats, especially Speaker Sheldon Silver,the session went much as it did for Pataki.
They, too, calculatedthat there was not much they needed, politically.
They, too,entered the year with a limited agenda, and in defeat foundelection-year ammunition.Pataki's broad budget vetoes in April denied the Democrats muchof what they wanted, including a $500 million increase in spendingon school construction and a tripling of spending on child care.Silver refused to negotiate with Pataki and the Senate majorityleader, Joseph Bruno, on restoring some of the vetoed items, sayingit was all or nothing.From the start, the speaker made it clear that he would ratherhave the issue to use against Pataki than have a fraction of themoney back.
And as the session ended, Silver kept up his attacks onthe governor with an eye toward the November election.The Assembly Democrats called for steps to reduce New York'sauto insurance rates, knowing well that the Republicans wouldreject them.
Again, even before the session had ended, the defeathad become a campaign issue, as the Democrats running against thegovernor piggy-backed on the Assembly's plans and blamed Pataki forhigh premiums.It was telling that when asked what he considered the majorachievement of the session, Silver cited not a piece oflegislation, but a process: the negotiation of a budget throughpublic conference committees with the Senate, rather than inprivate talks.Somewhat obscured by the furor over the vetoes was theDemocrats' achievement of some of the things they wanted most thisyear, including a large increase in basic school aid, expansion ofthe state's health care program for poor children, and a processfor people to appeal when their health insurance companies denycoverage for certain treatments.The Assembly passed a criminal-justice package that included thegovernor's proposal to end parole, though it also included othermeasures that Pataki and the Senate refused to accept.
In the end,no law was enacted, but the Democrats can go home and tell votersthat they, too, voted to abolish parole.So attractive was that measure as a piece of political coverthat all the Republicans in the Assembly voted for it as well, forfear that they would be accused of opposing the antiparole measure.LYON, France In one of the wilder twists of the mostanticipated, and controversial, matchup of this World Cup, Irantakes on its most-hated enemy of the last 20 years under theleadership of a man who has enjoyed all the benefits of life withinthe despised land.Jalel Talebi, who seeks to guide the Iranians past the UnitedStates tonight at Stade Gerland, has spent most of his time sincethe Islamic revolution 19 years ago residing in the Bay Area, wherehis sons were schooled, his wife runs a couple businesses, and hehas coached at the same junior college in which U.S. coach SteveSampson once played and coached.His is a crucial job.
Iran's emergence from the long, dark veilof fundamentalism, a ongoing process not nearly finished, has beenexemplified by its success in soccer, and its reaction to thatsuccess.Its qualification for the World Cup, its first since 1978,resulted in celebrations Khomeini never would have stood for, withmen drinking in public, women tossing aside their veils to kiss menin the street, and a mass celebration in the national stadium thatincluded 5,000 women, who weren't permitted on the grounds.Iranians, especially the young people, see the World Cup as achance to rejoin the world community, to show that they contrary towidely held international beliefs are just like everyone else.And if anyone embodies that concept, it is Talebi, 53, who wasforced to leave Iran when its war with Iraq, which began in 1980,put an end to soccer in the country.A little background: Talebi played for Iran's Olympic team inTokyo in 1964, and turned to coaching when a knee injury ended hisplaying career.
He was in charge of the Iranian Olympians prior tothe revolution, but found his skills no longer useful once the warwith Iraq began.He took a job in the United Arab Emirates but didn't want hischildren schooled in Arabic, so his family was sent to the UnitedStates, to Palo Alto.
He joined them in 1983 and has spent most ofthe last 15 years there, taking off only for jobs with teams inMalaysia, Indonesia and Singapore.He also spent a spell at Foothill College in Los Altos Hills,where Sampson played and served as an assistant coach.
The men metin 1994, through Bora Milutinovic, Talebi's close friend.His wife, Sira, opened a vegetarian restaurant and a skin-carebusiness, and his eldest sons, Babak and Borzov, attended localuniversities and took jobs in Silicon Valley.
His youngest son,Bardia, just graduated from Palo Alto High School, where he was asoccer star.
He wants to play at UCLA.Automated gas pumps record where you fill your tank and thekind of gas you use.
Video cameras watch for toll cheats on Ga. 400and keep a wary eye on automatic teller machines.
At work, yourboss may be reading your e-mail, counting the keystrokes you type,or monitoring your phone conversations.Don't like someone looking over your shoulder, prying into yourprivate life and watching your spending habits?
Better get used toit.
Author, futurist and physicist David Brin says we're hurtlingheadlong into an era when everyone's life will soon be an openbook.Even someone with as fertile an imagination as Brin admits tobeing a little unsettled by the speed at which technology ispushing an intrusive nose into people's private lives.Consider, for instance, the Transient Electronic Pulse EmanationSurveillance Technology, a system already in use that enableselectronic sensors to record the contents of any computer screen through walls if it's necessary up to a half-mile away.Over the years, science fiction writers have tended to see theproliferation of privacy-threatening technologies in Orwellianterms more tools for Big Brother to keep ordinary people underthe thumb.
But where others see oppression, Brin seesopportunities.If high-tech marketers want to profile your spending habits, hesays, insist that you have access to their records as well.
Ifhighway patrolmen carry video cameras to record their arrests,maybe motorists should too.
If Big Brother wants to watch, demandthe right to watch the watchers free access for all toinformation.In some cities, for instance, residents are recording theactivities of prostitutes in an effort to discourage them fromworking their neighborhoods.
Megan's Law, the federally mandatedregister of sexual offenders, enables police and local residentsalike to identify potential child molesters living in theirneighborhoods.
Environmental Protection Agency regulations now makedata on local sources of toxic waste available, too.New information technology can also help make governments moreaccountable.
The Internal Revenue Service now uses supervisionsoftware to ensure that its employees do not browse through taxreturns they have no official business seeing.Brin says a brave new world of electronic vigilantes is bound toconflict with individual needs for freedom and privacy.
Humannature makes it inevitable.ATLANTA -- Back when I was a kid, the arrival of my Uncle Billat our house was a great event.He lived in Alaska and to folks living in Arkadelphia, Ark.
that was every bit as exotic as if he were a permanent resident ofMars or Paris, France ... both places seemed about as far away.The house was cleaned, we stocked up on the sort of food weusually ate on Sundays, and my brother and I got new blue jeans.I don't mean to tell you that Windows 98 is anything asimportant as the arrival of my Uncle Bill.
After all, he usuallygave us silver dollars and told stories about Alaskan-grownstrawberries that got danged near as big as heads of lettuce.
UncleBill was a storyteller and free with his money.But some of you will need to get ready for its arrival.
Youprobably won't need new blue jeans, but you do need to prepare.As the arrival of Windows 98 draws near, let's talk about howyou can get your computer ready for the newest version of Windows.I hope you've already taken care of the first item on my list,adding RAM.
All the versions of Windows, including 95, are about ashungry as a puppy with a tapeworm.
Forget all the minimumrequirements and make sure you have at least 32 megabytes.
Get 64if you possibly can.
With either version of Windows, RAM works alot like a supercharger when it comes to speed.
You will notice adifference.Next you need to take a hard look at your hard disk.
Truth is,even 1-gigabyte disks are becoming too small for folks with a fullcomplement of programs.
The good news is that hard disks just asis true with RAM chips are cheaper than ever.
The bad news isthat all these cheap prices can sure add up if you need RAM and abigger hard disk.You'll also want to consider a faster modem if you have anythingless than a 56k bps modem.
Now what, you ask, does upgrading amodem have to do with installing Windows?Besides the fact this is an Internet world nowadays, Windowsuses the Web for a remarkable feature that automatically looks forupdates to Windows itself and then helps you install them.
Thatmeans that, if you use the built-in feature, it's less likelyyou'll miss an important bug fix or software update.
But some ofthese updates are huge 6 or more megabytes.
You'll want to makethe download fast enough to make the process relatively pain-free.Next, make a quick inventory of multimedia accessories such asvideo card, sound card and the like.
Windows makes good use ofgraphics and sound, but if your computer is more than three yearsold, you'll likely want updates here.One thing I wouldn't worry about is rushing out to buy a newcomputer to take advantage of the USB (universal serial bus)technology.
Don't get me wrong.
It's neat stuff with USB you'llbe able to connect a lot of gadgets to your serial bus withoutworrying about conflicts.
But you'll be buying a new computer soonenough, so don't use USB as an excuse.
If your PC is at least aPentium running at 166 megahertz, it should do just fine withWindows 98.Finally, check your wallet.
If you are like most people, you'llsoon need to find about $109 because no matter what you think now you'll almost certainly upgrade to Windows 98 within the nextthree or four months.ATLANTA -- For most computer users, the burning issue concerningMicrosoft's Windows 98 isn't the one grabbing the headlines theantitrust questions it raises for the Justice Department.Instead, home computer users are wondering whether they shouldbe lining up at dawn on Thursday to buy the latest version ofWindows when it officially hits the shelves.Predictably, Microsoft bills the newest Windows as a muchimproved version: faster, less likely to cause your computer tocrash or freeze, and loaded with dozens of new features to makecomputing easier and more fun.Almost as predictably, given the contrary nature of writers andanalysts, the majority of those folks see Windows 98 as arelatively minor upgrade.
It's been called a stopgap releasedesigned to provide bug fixes and updates that are alreadyavailable free for the downloading to Web-savvy users atMicrosoft's site (http://www.microsoft.com).This is the last in the consumer-grade series of Windows.
Theway things stand now, it's unlikely there will be a Windows 2000 or2003.
Microsoft plans to standardize something the company isfamous for already on Windows NT in upcoming releases.
In thefuture, there probably will be several versions of NT, Microsoft'sindustrial strength version of Windows, which up to now hasbeen mostly aimed at businesses and power users.I've been using the beta version of Windows 98 for severalmonths and installed an advance copy of the final commercialversion that will be sold in stores for $109.
The recommendationsaren't as easy to make as when Windows 95 was introduced.
Thatprogram was a clear technical knockout winner when compared toWindows 3.1, which it replaced.So you'll have to decide.
To better help you make up your mind,let's take a look at some of the things that set Windows 98 apart.Most people will be delighted to know that the familiar Windowsdesktop hasn't changed much.
In fact, unless you watch the Windows98 startup screen, you'd be hard-pressed to tell at a glancewhether the program is Windows 95 or 98.
While those who put a lotof stock in the way a program looks may be disappointed, mostpeople will be glad to know that they won't have to relearnWindows.
Unlike the shift between 3.1 and Windows 95, you won'tneed the skimpy user's manual to know how to launch programs anduse most Windows features.This is Microsoft's biggest selling point this Windows is themost stable yet.
While even a few months of everyday use isn'tenough to make any definitive judgments about stability, it doesseem less likely to crash or freeze.
The chief complaint of someanalysts that this is a minor upgrade may actually work inWindows' favor here.
Since it is not a radical redesign, there wasplenty of time to fix problems discovered in Windows 95 and notenough changes to introduce many new ones.Most experienced users know this, but novice computer users willbe relieved to know the installation process is automatic and doesnot remove any of the programs or data used under Windows 95.
I'veinstalled Windows on six separate machines and with one exception the installations were flawless.
The one exception was a PCconnected to a local area network.
Apparently, some of thespecialized network software caused problems and when thecomputer was restarted it reported that some of the files neededfor the LAN were missing.
However, reinstalling that software andthen reinstalling Windows 98 solved the problem.
Expect to spendabout 45 minutes to an hour installing Windows 98.Another nifty feature is the ability of the disk fragmentationsoftware to change where your programs are stored on your hard diskbased on how often you use each program.
By putting the most oftenused programs in the best positions, they'll load faster at theexpense of loading time of seldom-used programs.
You'll need to usethe defragmentation program several times before you'll notice adifference but over time you will see improvements.Finally, there's the controversial melding of Internet Explorerand the Windows desktop.
That's one of the features that caused theJustice Department to file the antitrust suit, since new users maynever try the competing browser from Netscape.
Using this feature,you can make launching a program and navigating through the filesystem very much like using the Web.
You get a more graphical lookand only needto single-click to perform most functions.
However,this feature seems to slow down most computers dramatically and hasnot been popular with many earlier users.All that said, what's the answer to the big question: Do youline up at dawn on Thursday to buy Windows 98?A lot depends on whether you enjoy the early morning.
Windows 98itself isn't enough of a change to make that dawn trip.
However, itis a legitimate improvement as you would expect from a majorprogram developed by a company with the resources of Microsoft and there's no doubt that most of us will be installing new Windowssooner or later.WASHINGTON A key election approaching, Rep. John Linder sayshe feels no pressure in his job as chief fund-raiser andcheerleader for Republican congressional campaigns.The speaker is demanding the latest polling data and plans inNew Mexico, where Republicans risk losing a congressional seat andseeing their small majority shrink from 11 to 10.A few bad breaks here and there could end GOP control of theHouse after four years, though most political analysts stillconsider a Democratic takeover a longshot.Two wild cards could dramatically alter the fall campaigns.
Oneis the ongoing investigation of President Clinton and theDemocrats, from campaign finance issues to allegations of an affairwith former White House intern Monica Lewinsky.
If independentcounsel Kenneth Starr sends Congress a report detailing wrongdoingby the president, Republicans could be looking at big gains inNovember.The other unknown is the impact of the tobacco issue.Republicans believe they can withstand the collapse ofcomprehensive tobacco legislation in the Senate.
Democrats believevoters will hold the GOP accountable.Still, it was something less than a vote of confidence whenanonymous sources last month told conservative columnist RobertNovak, whose columns have served as trial balloons for Gingrich,that Linder was being set up as the scapegoat for anticipatedRepublican losses.On top of that, Gingrich brought back Paxon to pry campaignmoney from Republican House members for the GOP nominee in NewMexico, Heather Wilson.Linder stands by his prediction of a Republican gain of 10 seatsin November, more optimistic than most analysts and some Republicancolleagues.The New Mexico election, to fill the seat held by the late Rep.Steven Schiff, is the next test.
Wilson and Democratic state Sen.Phil Maloof are locked in a tight race and, whatever the resultTuesday, they will square off again in November.Both sides view the New Mexico election as critical.
DickGephardt, the House Democratic leader, and Dick Armey, theRepublican leader, are campaigning there this weekend.Democrats also are sending Rep. Loretta Sanchez of California toappeal to Hispanic voters.
Jack Kemp, the 1996 Republican vicepresidential nominee, made an appearance for Wilson.
Top politicaloperatives in both parties have been sent to Albuquerque as well.Maloof, from a wealthy and politically well-connected family,has paid for much of his race with family money, giving him a stoutadvantage over Wilson.But Paxon, whose ebullience contrasts with Linder's reserve,said that by the time the election is over, he will have collected$250,000 to $300,000 from fellow Republicans in the House forWilson's campaign.He won't have time.
The campaigns for the rest of the House willintensify quickly during the next couple of months.
Linder'spracticed calm, a vestige of an earlier career as a dentist, shouldserve him well.Linder's committee has raised more than $50 million, which willallow it to give the maximum $70,000 to 100 candidates and financean array of issue ads that are not subject to Federal ElectionCommission limits.Those ads will counter an anticipated barrage from labor unionsin a couple of dozen districts, he said.As it now stands, both parties are focusing on six to eightraces in California, three each in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio,Pennsylvania, Washington and Wisconsin and a few others across thecountry.In most instances, the most fiercely contested elections will bein districts with no incumbent on the ballot and a rough paritybetween Democratic and Republican voters.There are some early warning signs for Republicans.Conservatives in the House, upset with a lackluster legislativeagenda, had been reluctant to give money to the committee and somemoderate GOP candidates, but Paxon's intervention has helped.They also were upset that Linder and Gingrich urged a moderateRepublican, Brooks Firestone, to run in a California specialelection.Now Gingrich is intervening in a primary in Georgia.
He isopenly supporting Dylan Glenn, an African-American candidate andformer junior Bush White House aide, against businessman JoeMcCormick, who is white.But if Gingrich is complicating things for Linder in SouthGeorgia, he also is the party's not-so-secret fund-raising weapon.Linder will try to remedy that by sending Gingrich, a legendaryfund-raiser, to some of those districts during the July Fourthcongressional recess.WASHINGTON When President Clinton leaves for his journeythrough China, he will carry with him a stubborn hope to bring theBeijing leadership into the world mainstream on many fronts fromnuclear nonproliferation to economic trade to greaterdemocratization.But the results of the nine-day, five-city trip will be measurednot in the typical markings of diplomatic success treaties signedand accords reached but rather in the gradual prodding of Chinato open its borders to more US goods and its collective mind togreater freedoms, all as part of a strategy known as engagement.Standing in the long shadow of controversy over campaignfund-raising allegations, Clinton will be officially welcomed onFriday in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, site of the 1989 massacre,then is expected to make pointed remarks on Chinese human rightstransgressions.
He will highlight local democracy efforts inChinese villages.
He plans to travel to the inland city of Guilinto call attention to the massive environmental problems facing theChinese.
And he will address the flagging Asian economy in anaddress in Hong Kong.This marks the first trip of a US president to China sincePresident Bush traveled to Beijing in 1989, months before themassacre of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of student protesters onTiananmen Square.
It is also the longest tour of any one country byClinton a partial payback, according to administration officials,for Chinese President Jiang Zemin's 10-day US visit in October.White House aides said Clinton, in tone and substance, willstrive to resemble House Speaker Newt Gingrich in his 1997 visit toChina, rather than Vice President Al Gore in his trip to Beijinglast year.
Gore was widely perceived as unprepared and toolaudatory, while Gingrich received many plaudits back home, fromRepublicans and Democrats, for upbraiding Chinese leaders on humanrights concerns.In all, the presidential entourage will include a fleet of 747jets packed with several hundred reporters, Cabinet secretaries,White House aides, and other administration officials.
The tripwill begin Thursday in the city of Xian, the ancient capital ofChina and home to the famed terra cotta soldiers, and end on July 3in Hong Kong, a symbol of China's potential future.Among those traveling in the entourage will be US RepresentativeEdward J. Markey, a Malden Democrat and a member of the HouseCommerce Committee.
Also on the trip will be Secretary of StateMadeleine K. Albright, Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin,Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman, and Secretary of CommerceWilliam M. Daley.Still, at each stop, there will be questions, not just overChina's actions but over Clinton's motivations.Back in Washington, Clinton has been accused by Republicans ofaccepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal campaigncontributions from Chinese agents trying to influence the 1996 USelection.
In the last two months, he has been accused of approvingpotentially harmful missile-technology transfers to China by LoralSpace Communications, a US company whose owner was the singlebiggest Democratic contributor in 1996.Congress has since banned such technology transfers.
Clinton hasdenied wrongdoing, saying he was simply adhering to a program thatwas begun by President Reagan and continued under Bush.
More than100 Republican House members, including Gingrich, have demandedthat Clinton postpone his trip until the investigations into theLoral transfer are completed.In terms of concrete accomplishments, the United States ishoping to sign a pact with China to no longer target each otherwith nuclear missiles.
Still, even that plan is considered largelysymbolic, because such missiles can be retargeted in a matter ofminutes.
China has more than a dozen long-range missiles pointed atthe United States, and the United States has many more aimed atChina.Clinton will seek to closely involve China in stemming thepossibility of a nuclear arms race between India and Pakistan,partly by urging Chinese leaders to sever the flow of missiletechnology to Pakistan, and partly by leading through a continuedexample of nonproliferation.Economic officials will continue to laud the Chinese over theirdecision not to devalue their currency in the face of economicturmoil across Asia, and urge them to continue to maintain thevalue.The United States, citing a $50 billion-a-year trade deficitwith China, will also push leaders to ease import restrictions.On this trip, complaints have already arisen at home aboutClinton's visit to Tiananmen Square for the official welcomingceremony on Saturday.
Clinton will be greeted by Chinese leaders inthe Great Hall of the People.White House officials have intentionally scheduled the ceremonyfor late Friday night EST, and have scheduled a press statement forimmediately afterward by Clinton at the Great Hall, where he willissue a proclamation on human rights.White House press secretary Michael McCurry said Clinton isbuoyed by the controversy because he believes it will help attractattention to his mission of engagement.A rematch with Tampa Bay at the Cotton Bowl tonight offers theBurn a chance to prove it can win when expected.
The game will alsogive the Burn an opportunity to avenge an earlier loss to theMutiny, and a victory would allow Dallas to start closing the gapin the MLS' Western Conference.Two goals by U.S. national teamer Frankie Hejduk helped theMutiny (3-12) defeat Dallas, 3-1, on April 11.
John Kowalski hassince resigned as Tampa Bay's coach, and Hejduk is starting forTeam USA against Iran in today's World Cup match.Dallas (8-6) has its own problems and could have up to sixplayers miss today's match.
Alain Sutter, Eric Dade, Jorge Flores,Richard Farrer and Gerell Elliot could be sidelined by injuries,and Leonel Alvarez will not play because of an accumulation ofyellow cards.The Burn's last home game marked the league's most lopsidedmatch ever, an 8-1 loss to Los Angeles.
Disappointing road games atD.C.
United and Chicago followed.In two-plus seasons, the Burn has strung together no better thana five-game winning streak, once last season and in 1996.
Thisyear, Dallas started 3-0 but has yet to match that streak.The Burn has been unable to project any fear factor like thatassociated with Los Angeles or D.C. United, Washington said.
In1996, LA started 12-0 and began 9-0 this season.
Two-time MLSchampion D.C. has consecutive 13-4 starts.ELTON, England As the army of journalists and fleet ofsatellite trucks withdraw for now from this quiet village, LouiseWoodward will soon make her way to the local pub and market withoutthe world watching.But even those who campaigned to bring home the town's mostinfamous daughter admitted that they could never again see her inthe same way, that just below the surface of daily routine andpleasantries will exist a longing for answers.The young woman who dreamed of becoming an actress is destinedfor a life less ordinary, some specialists say.
Made famous by atrial observed around the globe and forever tainted by hermanslaughter conviction in the death of Matthew Eappen, an infant,Woodward now walks the same path as others who became known fortheir misdeeds.Bybee compared Woodward to celebrity athlete O.J.
Simpson,accused and acquitted of murdering his wife and her friend.Afterward, Simpson was dumped by his girlfriend, heckled on thegolf course, and snubbed by neighbors.
Shutterbugs waited at everycorner, and he contemplated fleeing the country.While channel-surfing at home last fall, Simpson called Court TVduring its broadcast of Woodward's trial.
The fallen footballlegend wanted to express his support for the frightened British aupair one outcast to another.As a convicted felon in a baby's death, Woodward should notexpect that those among the throngs which rallied for her duringthe trial will welcome her with open arms if she tries to get closeto them.
Her 14-year ordeal then became a roller-coaster ride ofheadline-grabbing trials, convictions, and a series of appeals.Earlier this month, a Superior Court judge overturned LeFave'sconviction, finding that the testimony of child witnesses had beentainted by faulty interviewing.
The state has appealed; ifprosecutors win, she returns to prison.
LeFave said she lost a lot: eight years of her life in aprison cell, her mother to cancer, her married life to stress andher good name.
She has never fully recovered.Though she's technically an innocent woman and has been free fornearly three years, LeFave said she sometimes lies awake all night,her nerves worn raw by the experience.
She said Woodward may havethe same anxieties.LeFave, 40, has said she lives a closeted existence, rarelyleaving her Ashmont apartment, fearful of being recognized.
At arecent Elton John concert, she realized the joy had been torn fromher life.Woodward says she wants to attend college and then get a job.LeFave said she'd been there, too.
She had a steady job as anairline reservations clerk two years ago until a supervisor sawher on the 6 o'clock news.
LeFave was immediately escorted from thepremises.
Then again, some say that like a fading athlete grown addictedto glory, Woodward may miss the constant media attention: camerasflashing and reporters jostling to get closer to her.British journalists said last week that although they will soonleave town, they will return to document Woodward's most personalmilestones: her start in college, her first job, her loverelationships and, especially, the birth of a first child.On Tuesday, minutes after she left Marblehead for Logan Airportand the flight home to Elton, media trucks and journalistsdescended on the English town.
Some villagers complained, andothers even crossed the street to avoid reporters.
But Barlow notedthat still others have come to realize how vital publicity hasbeen a help to Woodward, at least financially.Left alone, Woodward will probably suffer internal conflictsbetween her belief that she's innocent and her court conviction,British psychologists say.Dr.
Sidney Crown, a London psychotherapist, believes theWoodward family should undergo counseling as Louise tries to regainher life.Woodward's challenge to adjust will be complicated by the ficklepress, said Dr. Richard Howells, a communications instructor at theUniversity of Leeds.In November, when Judge Hiller Zobel reduced Woodward'ssecond-degree murder conviction to manslaughter and sentenced herto the 279 days she had already served, the village of Eltontoasted Woodward with champagne, hailing her as a folk hero who'dsurvived rough treatment in a foreign land.But as she finally arrived here last week traveling likeroyalty despite unresolved allegations that her family misused herdefense fund public opinion on British soil had already shifted.Howell said Woodward's upcoming interview with the BBC's MartinBashir may swing the public pendulum back to Woodward, if all goeswell and, experts added, as long as she doesn't get paid for herstory.NEW YORK Sometime in 1993 memories are hazy and nothing waswritten down for the public the North American Air DefenseCommand in Cheyenne Mountain, Colo., conducted a test to see whatwould happen to all their computers the ones that warn of anuclear attack on New Year's Day of the Year 2000.The Y2K problem is now a well-known bug the one demon in thebag of popular millennial nightmares that is based not onNostradamus or other mythic apocrypha, but on hard science.Every federal agency, bank, and major corporation has teamsdevoting thousands of manhours to solving the problem in the next18 months, before the deadline inexorably strikes.But the military may be the hardest hit, because theconsequences could affect not just paychecks and power grids, butwar and peace.Pentagon officials are hopeful that they will fix at least allthe critical systems in time, but they admit it will be a closecall, at best.According to the Pentagon, only four countries the UnitedStates, Britain, Canada, and Australia are doing anything toprepare their military computers for 2000.Hamre said the situation is so grim that the Pentagon isdeveloping a program to share data from US early-warning satelliteswith other countries, including Russia and China.
Otherwise, come2000, such nations may find themselves in the dark, uncertainwhether an attack is coming or not which, in a crisis, couldprovoke great anxiety.Blair, who has interviewed several Russian nuclear officers,said Russia faces particularly dire straits.
Since its army hascollapsed, it is relying far more on its nuclear weapons forsecurity.
And, because of shortages in manpower and money, itsnuclear weapons are becoming increasingly vulnerable and itsearly-warning network more riddled with gaps.That meeting resulted in a directive, sent to every relevantoffice in the Defense Department, to address Y2K as a top priority.By the end of next year, $1.9 billion will have been shifted fromvarious weapons programs to prepare for 2000.First, the commercial computer industry might not be able tosupply the large quantity of hardware the communications hubs,routers, and servers needed to make the fixes.Then, the fixes themselves need to be tested and de-bugged which, as anyone who has purchased a software program during itsfirst weeks on the market knows, can take a while.Finally, military computers interact with each other and withcivilian computers and these interactions could unfold inunforeseeable ways.When the Chrysler Corp. conducted a test of its Y2K solutions atan assembly plant last year, the time clocks malfunctioned, causingthe security system to shut down, making it impossible for anyoneto leave the building.When the Phillips Petroleum Co. ran a simulation onboard an oilvessel in the North Sea, a safety system designed to detect adeadly gas, hydrogen sulfide, shut down.In some cases, real-life failures have taken place that onlybegin to hint at how far-flung the problems might be.A preview of possible military disasters was the incident in the1991 Gulf War, when a Scud missile blew up a barracks in SaudiArabia, killing 28 National Guard troops inside.A post-mortem of the disaster revealed that the Patriotair-defense battery failed to shoot down the Scud because the clockin the Patriot's radar system was not properly synchronized.The radar had been designed to be left on for only a shortwhile.
Its clock viewed a day as 23 hours and 59 minutes long.However, once this particular Patriot arrived in Saudi Arabia, theradar was left on continuously.
So its clock drifted away from theactual time by one minute per day.When the Patriot system's computer detected an incoming Scudmissile, it would see the missile on two radar screens and sendboth blips to another computer controlling its fire-control system.But since the two blips were not synchronized, the fire-controlcomputer could not connect them could not see them as a target.This is not your father's Red China.
In fact, the country thatPresident Clinton will see this week barely resembles the countrythat hosted George Bush for the last American presidential visitnine years ago.Since the Bush visit, China has developed commodities marketsand stock exchanges.
Satellite dishes are everywhere.
So arepersonal agendas, personal computers, personal trainers, and almostanything that stresses individual, not communal, growth.Kentucky Fried Chicken KFC, that is is a popular lunchjoint.
Chinese cities have private clubs, night clubs, strip clubs,and book clubs, but the books are all about amassing capital, nothonoring Chairman Mao's dictums.When Bush saw China, most of the population had been shaped byMao, who had died 13 years earlier.
But today's Chinese havedistant memories, if any at all, of Mao and the CulturalRevolution.Make no mistake: President Jiang Zemin, the army, and securityservices ensure that the newfound freedoms go only so far.And to prepare for Clinton's nine-day, five-city visit, Chinahas conducted extensive sweeps of dissidents, jailing some,threatening many, and shipping others far away.Still, Roth insists that economic openings in China are leadingto some political openings.
China blocks dozens of sites on theWeb, but plenty of information from exiles still comes through.There are fledgling environmental groups.
China holds relativelyfree local elections.The Chinese had a few special requests.
They wanted to givepreschoolers an early appreciation of Chinese opera and art.
Andbecause China's one-child policy has created a country full of sonsand daughters who are often spoiled, Big Bird's cousin and severalnewly minted Muppet characters put extra emphasis on learning toshare.And because this is the new, consumer-driven China, storeshelves will soon offer books, videos, and toys featuring the6-foot-tall yellow bird and his Mandarin-speaking pals.
By JOHN P. LOPEZ c. 1998, Houston Chronicle BORDEAUX, France Most of the time, ending a game with a tie islike kissing your sister.This time, after one of the more remarkable comebacks of theWorld Cup thus far and a tying goal that was nothing if notspectacular, it was like the entire Mexican team ascending theAzteca pyramids, sweaty and exhausted, and thanking the heavens fora divine effort.All hope definitely seemed gone for Mexico at steamy-hot StadeLescure on Saturday.
Belgium stormed to a 2-0 lead, the Mexicanswere playing a man short because of a questionable red card andevery legitimate Mexican opportunity was being kicked away.The tie clouded Mexico's hopes of advancing out of the toughGroup E, which includes the favored Dutch, who defeated Korea onSaturday.
A win would have assured a trip to the single-eliminationsecond round.Now tied with the Dutch with four points, while Belgium has two(with a pair of ties) and South Korea none, Mexico must earn atleast a tie with the Dutch in order to keep its chances ofadvancing since Belgium likely will beat South Korea.The red card came against Mexico defender Pavel Pardo in the29th minute, and by most accounts it was a questionableinterpretation of the back-tackle rule, which FIFA president SeppBlatter ruled should be an automatic red card and disqualificationfrom the game.The call clearly devastated Mexico.
Only minutes later Belgium'sMarc Wilmots put his team ahead with an easy boot into the back ofthe net off a corner kick.At halftime, Blanco said he told teammates to quit playing sotentatively.
But only three minutes into the second half it lookedas if Belgium would walk away with the victory when Wilmots got hissecond goal on a nice individual effort to get clear in the Mexicanbox and unleash the untouchable shot.But Belgium didn't, thanks to a terrific effort by Ramon Ramirezin the 55th minute that ignited his team.Ramirez tried to take a pass in front of the Belgian goal andwork the ball past goalie Filip De Wilde.
But as DeWilde tried toconverge on the ball before Ramirez could get off a shot, Belgium'sGert Verheyen also crashed into Ramirez, clipping his heel frombehind.Verheyen then received a red card from referee Hugh Dallas ofScotland and Garcia-Aspe whipped in the penalty kick to make it2-1.The game-tying goal by Blanco was a thing of beauty, withRamirez taking the ball on a big run directly at the Belgiandefense, then chipping the ball across to Blanco.The pass went long, well over Blanco, but Blanco dove feet-firstand whacked the ball with his left foot in front of De Wilde and,well, then it was the raucous Mexican fans who went wild.NEW YORK After tossing six shutout innings in Miami lastSunday, Hideo Nomo said he could not remember his best performanceof the season.
Suffice it to say, Nomo will surely be able torecall better days than Saturday.With 44,355 fans on hand at Shea Stadium for a souvenir batgiveaway, Nomo could not find home plate.
In his five-plus innings,he not only walked six batters, but he also could not hold onto a3-0 lead in a game he and the Mets would eventually lose, 8-3, tothe lowly Florida Marlins.In case no one has noticed, the Mets are slumping.
Badly.Instead of energizing the almost-full house on Saturday, the Metslet another game slip away to one of the worst teams in theNational League.
In the last eight days, the Mets (38-31) have lostsix times to Florida and Montreal, including their last four in arow.By trading for Mike Piazza on May 22 and then for Nomo on June4, the Mets were not only trying to shore up their roster for apost-season run, but also trying to change a popular perceptionthat they were an adequate but boring team without any marqueeplayers.But any team exciting or mundane that aspires to make it tothe playoffs simply cannot afford loss after loss tosalary-challenged teams like the Expos and the Marlins.
If the Metskeep it up, they may quickly chase away the fans they were hopingto lure back to Shea.In each of the six losses to the Expos and Marlins, the Metshave had the lead sometimes late in the game, sometimes early,sometimes in the fifth or sixth inning.
In some of the losses theproblem has been a bullpen that has turned extremely shaky.
Inothers, it has been the normally stellar starting pitching that hasbroken down.
And in almost every instance, the Mets have been badlyserved by an offense that just does not score many runs.Nomo who has yet to win in three starts with the Mets wasalmost down by 4-0 Saturday before the first inning was over.
ButWayne Kirby, who started in center field, reached up at the wall inleft-center and grabbed Derrek Lee's drive just as it was about tobecome a grand slam.
And then the Mets scored three times in thethird off Livan Hernandez, the first run driven in by Nomo on abases-loaded walk.Florida Manager Jim Leyland was ejected from his perch in thedugout one pitch later, having lobbed a few choice words toward thehome-plate umpire, Dana DeMuth.
Edgardo Alfonzo, who had threehits, followed with a two-run single to right to give Nomo a 3-0lead.But the Marlins roared right back to tie the game in the thirdwith a two-out rally, highlighted by Todd Zeile's two-run homerthat bounced off the top of the right-field fence.
Nomo walkedthree Marlins in the inning, including Craig Counsell with thebases loaded, to give the Marlins a 3-3 tie.Nomo then held the Marlins scoreless until the sixth, whenCounsell led off with a full-count walk and Hernandez singled himto second after having fouled off two consecutive bunt attempts.
Oncame Brian Bohanon, who ended up throwing a wild pitch to enableCounsell to score the go-ahead run.The Marlins added two more runs in the seventh, although theMets cut down another run at the plate on a Matt Franco-to-ReyOrdonez-to-Mike Piazza relay that began at the left-field fence.Then Mel Rojas, who is in as bad a funk as anyone, gave up a pairof runs in the eighth, raising still more questions about a bullpenthat does not have a right-handed reliever the Mets can depend on.When it was over, the Mets were left wondering if it is a slumpor something more.
Is it any wonder that Ruben Sierra was signed toa look-and-see minor league contract Saturday?
Even with Piazza,these Mets have no punch especially in their outfield.
And whenthe pitching is not there and it was not there Saturday theMets are in trouble.Nomo is now 2-8 with a 4.95 earned run average.
As a Met, he is0-1 with a 4.50 e.r.a.
He allowed 7 hits Saturday in his 97 pitchesand has now allowed 73 hits in 832/3 innings.
Most distressing thisseason has been the walks, 50 of them in all, an average of 5.4 pergame.Not only are more men buying more ties this year -- menswearsales are up 6.7 percent nationwide -- but there's a return to thepower tie, which we last saw in the mid-'80s.
Then it was apale-yellow silk print, and now it's a woven, 18-karat-gold-coloreddesign reflecting the renewed interest in luxury goods.But ties, like hemlines, are only a gauge, and the world'sexcitement over the end of the millennium has thrown marketwatchers a curve.He said the colored shirt with matching solid-color tie that wasso hot last year fueled the fire.
But soda-pop colors like lime,lavender and pale orange are cooling off, and deep jewel tones inclassic stripes and small prints -- still paired with blue orearth-toned dress shirts -- are the big news now.She attributed the overall trend to Kaiser's new management,which has created a new-found pride in the workplace.Power ties at Rocketdyne Propulsion Power in suburban CanogaPark, which is now affiliated with Boeing, are also glowing ingold, but shades of red still mean business, said company spokesmanDan Beck.
He was quick to add that Rocketdyne is not exactly atie-wearing company, but he wears one, and favors woven styles witha '40s flavor.Since it's a relatively casual atmosphere, anybody wearing hisbest suit and power tie would make people suspicious that he had ajob interview at lunch, Beck added.Rachel Gregory, a menswear buyer for Nordstrom stores, agreedwith Hall but said that in a creative or fashion field, she'dexpect prospective employees to be more edgy in their attire.It's a concept that attorneys such as Christopher Keosian, acivil litigation and bankruptcy attorney with Keosian Keosian ofCentury City, near Beverly Hills, understand and utilize in theirclient's best interest.A plaintiff attorney, Keosian said he advises his clients todress similarly, making sure the tie isn't too flashy, such as apolka-dot design, because it conveys a liberal, risky person.
Thebest choice?
It's usually a conservative striped tie with a whiteshirt.The staple of preppy dressing, it was never designed to be wornwith elegant suits.
Fashion experts will tell you it's meant to beworn with summer seersuckers, navy-blue blazers and rep ties, orworn tieless with khakis on casual Fridays.While others have double-bogeyed, tripled-bogeyed, succumbed tofits of frustration, or surrendered to the torturous conditions atthe Olympic Club, Stewart has found ways to persevere.
When playended Saturday night, Stewart was the lone player under par, and hehad never worked so hard to keep a red number next to his name.It has taken some of the best golf of Stewart's career to take afour-stroke lead into Sunday's final round.
And if Stewart can holdon, after winning just once on the PGA Tour during the last sevenyears, this victory would rank as his sweetest.
Standing attwo-under-par 207 for the tournament after Saturday's even parround of even-par 70, Stewart held a four-stroke lead over TomLehman and Bob Tway.Lee Janzen and Nick Price were tied for fourth place at twoover, still close enough to make a final-round charge, especiallyif Stewart finally falters.But those waiting for Stewart to succumb to the pressure may bewaiting a long time.
Stewart was the last first-round leader to winthe U.S. Open, when he won in 1991 at Hazeltine National Golf Clubin Chaska, Minn. Stewart has led after all three rounds this year,and after Saturday's steady performance, he seemed confidentheading into Sunday.Yet Stewart will be chased by formidable players.
The cream roseto the top Saturday, and the top five contenders are all formermajor winners.
Lehman is the 1996 British Open champion.
Tway wonthe 1986 PGA Championship.
Price has won four majors in hisbrilliant career, most recently the 1994 PGA Championship.
AndJanzen won the 1993 U.S. Open.Lehman, who shot a 68 Saturday, will be the sentimental favoriteamong the gallery.
From 1995 through '97, Lehman ended the thirdround of the U.S. Open either alone in first place, or tied for thelead.
Yet he has never won the championship that he wants the most,and he sounded almost relieved that he will not start Sunday withthe lead again.Starting the day at three under par, one stroke ahead of Twayand Jeff Maggert, Stewart never lost the lead.
He started with aneagle on the first hole, reaching the par-5, 533-yard first hole intwo shots, then making an 8-foot putt.
After a bogey on No.
3,Stewart answered with a birdie on the par-3 No.
8, when he hit histee shot to within five feet, then made the birdie putt.
Stewartbogeyed No.
9 and No.
15, but he made pars the rest of the way.Meanwhile, the competition was spinning its wheels just tryingto stay close.
Maggert hurt his chances badly Saturday with a 75 tofall three over par for the tournament.
Tway had a chance to tieStewart for the lead at four under par, but he missed a birdie putton No.
6.
Tway followed with a bogey on No.
7, then he missed thefairway at No.
9, leading to a double-bogey that dropped him toeven par, and back with the rest of the contenders.Janzen remained in the hunt after a 73 on Saturday, but he alsohad a costly double-bogey (No.
17).
Price was very steady, shootinga 71 on Saturday, and keeping himself close enough to give himselfa chance on Sunday.Many of the pre-tournament favorites will not win this weekend.Ernie Els, the defending champion, is out of contention at 10 overfor the tournament.
Phil Mickelson (eight over) will not win hisfirst major championship on Sunday, nor will David Duval (eightover) or Colin Montgomerie (11 over).
Tiger Woods (seven over par)was well out of contention as well.But on Saturday, he managed to regroup, making birdies on thefirst three holes, then keeping his poise after making bogeys onthe next three.
Lehman ended the day on a high note with a birdieon No.
18, and he looked forward to another Sunday at the Open.Yet so far, Stewart has battled his nerves and the course withsuccess.
And if he could do it again, he would have a sweet reward.Globe editors and librarians have reviewed 364 columns by MikeBarnicle, dating back to January 1996.
Where warranted, we haveverified identities of all people named as significant sources orsubjects, using various computer databases and discussions with thewriter.Obviously there are limitations to any such review, but webelieve these columns met professional standards and we believe hisown assertions, published in Saturday's Globe, that this is so.Mike Barnicle has written more than 3,500 columns for The BostonGlobe since 1973.
His style has sometimes been controversial and hehas collected a good number of critics and enemies over the years.But that does not justify linking him with the misdeeds of PatriciaSmith.
For those who would attempt to do so, I would urge greatcaution.NEW YORK A Greyhound bus driver on his last scheduled run waskilled early on Saturday, along with his wife, his 8-year-old son,and four other passengers, when their bus crashed into atractor-trailer parked on the Pennsylvania Turnpike.The accident happened shortly after 4 a.m. on a mountainous,rain-slicked part of the turnpike about 50 miles west ofHarrisburg, Pa.
The bus, carrying 23 people from New York City toPittsburgh, crashed into the rear of a tractor-trailer parked onthe shoulder, near a tunnel.
The accident injured 18 people,including 2 who were asleep in the truck cab.The names of the other victims, including Wisner's wife, who was56, and his son, were not released.
The authorities said some mightnot be identified until Monday.The injured included a 34-year-old man from Elmhurst, N.Y., whowas listed in critical condition at the Washington County Hospital,in Hagerstown, Md.
A hospital representative declined to reveal theman's name.
Another person was listed in stable condition at thehospital and 16 were treated for minor injuries.Late Saturday afternoon, the police were still investigating thecrash.
Greyhound officials declined to speculate on a cause, butdismissed a theory that the driver might have fallen sleep.
Theofficials said that the company followed strict federal highwaysafety regulations that permit employees to drive only 10 hours ina 24-hour period and 70 hours in an eight-day period.A Greyhound spokesman, George Gravley, said Wisner's personnelfile had been sent to the National Transportation Safety Board,which is investigating the accident along with a team fromGreyhound.Wisner began his last run on Thursday night, when he drove fromPittsburgh, his home base, to New York City.
He arrived in New Yorkearly Friday morning and spent 13 hours in the city before headingout to Pittsburgh at 9 p.m. on Friday, Gravley said.The tractor-trailer was parked on a wide shoulder, a mile westof the Tuscarora Tunnel.
The road was wet from rain earlier in themorning.
Lt. Richard Kovalik of the state police said it was commonpractice, and legal, for trucks to pull off the road onto theshoulder.Scott Elarton's shot at winning his major-league debut gotcaught up in a tangled mess created by the bullpen, but the elasticAstros refused to break in their 22nd come-from-behind victory ofthe season.Hot-hitting Carl Everett's three-run double capped a four-runeighth inning and sent the Astros on their way to a wacky 9-8victory over the Cincinnati Reds Saturday afternoon at theAstrodome.
Billy Wagner surrendered two runs in the ninth but heldon for his 18th save of the season.The Astros, who moved to 17 games over .500 for the first timesince 1994, have won 12 games in their last at-bat this season.But this game hardly had the look of a typical Astros comebackwhen Elarton, 22, left with a 5-2 lead and two runners on with oneout in the seventh.
Instead of zapping the life out of the youngReds, the Astros' bullpen resuscitated Cincinnati's hopes byblowing the lead and putting the offense on call for morelate-inning magic.Pinch hitters Craig Biggio and Ricky Gutierrez started theeighth-inning rally.
Biggio was hit by a pitch, and Gutierrezsingled, bringing Bill Spiers to the plate to face Rick Krivda(0-1).
Spiers brought Biggio home on a single to right, tying thescore at six.Righthanded reliever Scott Sullivan got flyouts from Brad Ausmusand Derek Bell before intentionally walking Jeff Bagwell to bringEverett to the plate with the bases loaded.
Reds manager JackMcKeon summoned closer Jeff Shaw from the bullpen, but he was nomatch for Everett, who is hitting .393 in his last 14 games.If there was pressure on Elarton, he didn't bother to convey itto the 24,301 fans, including several family members, who showed upfor his coming-out party.
The rookie righthander pitched wellenough to win, holding the Reds to five hits in 6 innings whilestriking out nine and walking just one.Elarton retired 16 of the 25 batters he faced, setting down theside in order in three innings.
Dierker lifted him with the tyingrun at the plate, assuring the rookie would get nothing worse thana no-decision.So Dierker put Elarton's fate in the hands of the bullpen, whichdropped it like a stick of dynamite.
The Reds exploded for fourruns in the seventh, thanks in large part to an overall lack ofcontrol by the Astros' bullpen, which allowed five hits, four runs,two walks and a hit batsmen in its 2 innings.Dierker needed three relievers to get out of the seventh inning.Mike Magnante, who inherited runners at first and second, allowed asingle and bases-loaded walk to the two hitters he faced, andReggie Harris walked the only batter who stepped to the plateagainst him, forcing in another run.
C.J.
Nitkowski (3-2), whopitched a perfect eighth and got the win, allowed an RBI single toMike Frank to tie the score and with two out put the Reds ahead 6-5by hitting Willie Greene with the bases full.Elarton sat down the first four batters he faced with ease,changing speeds and spotting the ball like a veteran.
DmitriYoung's second-inning double to center was the Reds' first hit ofthe game, and Bret Boone singled him home to give Cincinnati a 1-0lead.The Astros put Elarton back in a comfort zone with four runs inthe third.
Bell had an RBI single, and Bagwell connected for atowering three-run homer off Reds starter Brett Tomko.
It wasBagwell's 12th home run of the season and the 199th of his career.Barry Larkin's solo homer in the fourth brought the Reds within4-2 before they took the lead during the Astros' seventh-inningcollapse.The Reds made one final push in the ninth, getting two runs onthree hits against Wagner, who coaxed a double-play ball fromGreene to end the game.ANAHEIM -- Steve Sparks has proven to be a mystery to the TexasRangers twice in the past week, and even his Angels teammates arestill trying to figure out where this guy came from.The knuckleball pitcher gave up three runs and five hits in 61/3 innings to lead the Angels to an 8-3 victory over the RangersSaturday afternoon before 31,671 at Edison Field.With the win, the Angels avoided falling behind the Rangers inthe A.L.
West standings, instead increasing their lead to 1 1/2games.
Anaheim has won 17 of its last 20 games.Sparks (2-0) made his Angels debut last Sunday in Texas and gothis first major league win in almost two years.
But it didn't takehim nearly that long to get another.After allowing three runs in the first inning -- two coming inon Juan Gonzalez's 23rd homer -- Sparks settled down and held theRangers scoreless before being removed with one out in the seventh.Meanwhile, the Angels took advantage of an erratic Todd VanPoppel, the former No.
1 pick of the Oakland A's who began thisseason in double-A.
Van Poppel (0-1) lasted only two-plus inningsand got the loss.
He gave up four runs and five hits, walking five.Erstad hit Van Poppel's first big league pitch since Sept. 27,1996 off the right field foul pole for a first-inning home run, andthe Angels didn't stop there.
Dave Hollins (two-run double in thethird) and Phil Nevin (two-run single in the eighth) had theAngels' other big hits.However, the day belonged to Sparks, who didn't figure to bemuch a part of this Angels team.
But with injuries to threestarting pitchers, Sparks became the Angels' best option.He missed all of 1997 as he recovered from reconstructive elbowsurgery, but was 0-8 in the minors this season.
However, other thanhis record, his numbers weren't that bad, and manager Terry Collinsnoticed.The key for Sparks on Saturday was that the Angels were able torally from a 3-0 deficit.
They scored three in the bottom of thefirst and three more in the third to go up, 6-3.
With a lead,Sparks didn't have to be so careful with his pitches, which helpshim avoid giving up too many walks.
Sparks walked four in the firstthree innings, but none after that.He is a side-arm left-hander who has been with the organizationsince 1995, but as he sat on the team bus waiting to go to theballpark, he looked like the rest of the organization not surewhat he was doing there.Turns out Brunson was brought up late Friday from Triple-A totake the place of Bobby Bonilla, who went on the 15-day disabledlist with a viral infection.
Bonilla has been hospitalized andisn't expected to be released until Monday.On a lesser scale, Brunson was similar to his new manager BillRussell, who is wading through an on-field mess while hearing thereis a pink slip awaiting him at home.Everyone from clubhouse guys to broadcasters to middle relieversare starting to check their 401K plans to see if they are securefinancially.To say the new Fox-run Dodgers are in transition is like sayingRamon Martinez has a sore arm.
Although the sale of the team wasapproved in March, there has been a lot of denial until now.Meanwhile, no leadership has emerged from the blockbuster tradethat sent Mike Piazza out of town, but if you believe talk radio,he's going to re-sign with the Dodgers in the winter.Gary Sheffield is a splendid player, but too quiet to steer thisship.
Raul Mondesi looks great in center, less great on a sidestreet in Glendale at 2 in the morning.
Eric Young has had a badleg for a month, making that four-year, $18.5 million contract atthe expense of acquiring a closer questionable.Thursday, he said making any trades would have to be clearedwith club president Bob Graziano and the Fox people.If that isn't confusing enough, many people in the organizationbelieve former manager Tom Lasorda, in an attempt to regain somepower, has been planting stories about Russell's firing toillustrate the chaos.Lasorda's relationship with Claire never was very good.
Russellused to be a loyal servant and late-night eating buddier once saidleft-hander Omar Daal could be the next Mike Cuellar.
Just more ofthat Greg Brock/Duke Snider nonsense.But Didier, now director of player personnel for Arizona, mightbe on to something with Daal, the former Dodgers farmhand, althoughCuellar won 20 games four times with Baltimore and the 1969 CyYoung Award.Daal, who starts for Arizona today at St. Louis, had acareer-high nine strikeouts and a shutout through eight innings ina 5-1 victory Tuesday night at Cincinnati, his first careercomplete game.
In his previous start, he beat the Angels 4-1 onfour hits in eight innings.Daal's 2.82 ERA would be tied with the Mets' Mosato Yoshii forNo.
10 in the National League, but he was 101/3 innings short ofqualifying.The Diamondbacks selected Daal in the second round of theexpansion draft as a starter, but he could not beat out JoelAdamson in the spring and began the season in the bullpen, enteringthe rotation May 5 after Adamson suffered a shoulder injury.Arizona is 5-3 in his eight starts.Daal has taken awhile to get here, going 10-2 in the winterleague in his native Venezuela in 1995-96 and 9-1 in 1996-97 as astarter.
Before this year, he had nine previous career starts inparts of six big-league seasons with the Dodgers and MontrealExpos.Reed can't be replaced: Under normal circumstances, Metsright-hander Rick Reed would be an easy All-Star selection forMarlins manager Jim Leyland, especially after Reed had a perfectgame for six innings Friday against Florida.But the issue isn't his numbers.
It's the lingering memory ofhis role as a replacement player with the Cincinnati Reds in 1995.Reed is 8-3 with a 2.38 ERA, fourth-best place in the NL,although those aren't even his best numbers.
Reed is second inbatting average against (.205), walks per nine innings (1.6) andon-base percentage against (.243).
He trails only Greg Maddux andteammate Al Leiter in slugging percentage allowed with a .307 mark.Reed is second in hits per innings (.74) and baserunners per nineinnings (8.3 to Maddux's 8.1).His strikeouts-to-walks ratio is 3.94 (67:17), which is thirdbehind Maddux and Curt Schilling, and in walks per nine inningshe's fourth at 1.64.Bagwell, the former NL MVP, hit only .247 in April and .234 inMay and was hitting less than .200 with runners in scoring positionuntil the past two weeks.
Bell hit .398 in April but dropped off tohit only .208 during May.
Now both appear to be on the verge ofgetting going.When Bagwell returned from the disabled list, Astros managerLarry Dierker inserted Bill Spiers in the second spot in the order,and dropped Bell to third, Bagwell to cleanup and Moises Alou(.325) to fifth.What happened?
: When Cincinnati's Brett Tomko defeated theDodgers late last season and again during the first weekend inApril, he looked like a budding star.
His manager, Jack McKeon,said Tomko had the stuff to win 20 this year, just his second inthe majors.That, however, hasn't happened.
After giving up six runs in 21/3innings Monday in a 13-2 loss to Houston, Tomko entered hisSaturday start against the Astros 5-6 with a 5.03 ERA.
A littlemore than a month ago, he was 5-1 with a 2.98 ERA.Tomko also has given up 10 home runs in his last nine starts.
Heallowed only one in his first five.
In his last six outings, whichincludes five losses and a no-decision, Tomko has given up 32 runs(30 earned) in 301/3 innings an 8.90 ERA.
He hasn't won since May13.Tomko has worked to improve his shaken confidence by reading abook on the mental art of pitching, but it hasn't been easy.For his part, McKeon maintains his belief in the pitcher theReds believe will eventually mature into a real ace.Robin could fly: Robin Ventura could be entering the final sixweeks of his White Sox career.
But if the Sox plan to trade thepotential free-agent third baseman, general manager Ron Schuelerisn't saying.Despite Schueler's position, the White Sox have made no attemptto re-sign Ventura.
His agent, Johnny Boggs, said he has not hadany contact with owner Jerry Reinsdorf or the Sox since anunproductive meeting in spring training.
Ventura is believed to beseeking a four-year deal for $32 million.Lehman, who frittered away the 54-hole lead at the past threeU.S.
Opens, finds himself in position at the Olympic Club to winagain.
With a five-birdie, three-bogey 68 that matched the lowestscore in yesterday's third round, Lehman will play in the finaltwosome at the Open for a fourth consecutive year.But this time, he will play the role of the hunter instead ofthe hunted.
Lehman, at 1-over par, stands four strokes behindleader Payne Stewart, who remains the only player under par (3under) through 54 holes at the 6,797-yard, par-70 layout.The role reversal, he said, could prove beneficial.
But Lehmandownplays suggestions that he is overdue to win an Open afterfinishing third, second and third, respectively, the past threeyears.Instead, Lehman relishes the chance to be the one playing withnothing to lose during the final round at the Open while someoneelse handles the mounting pressure of maintaining a lead.It proved to be more than Lehman could handle at ShinnecockHills Golf Club (1995), Oakland Hills Country Club (1996) orCongressional Country Club (1997), where the former Colonial champburst from the pack with third-round efforts of 67, 65 and 68,respectively.
Factor in yesterday's effort and LehmanUs third-roundscoring average for the past four years is 67.His average final-round score for the past three years, on theother hand, is 72.7.
Playing without pressure, Lehman hopes, willhelp him close with an effort more like the one he turned inyesterday.Lehman started with three consecutive birdies, all afterapproach shots inside 15 feet.
Over the next three holes, hesurrendered all three strokes, taking bogeys after drives into therough.
But he rebounded with a chip-in birdie at No.
14, followedby a six-foot birdie putt at No.
18.That one, he said, was especially crucial from a mentalstandpoint after four-putting the 18th green to conclude his secondround.When Robinson's crosschecks of voter registration records,telephone databases, the Registry of Motor Vehicles and othersources did not turn up some individuals mentioned in the columns,top editors decided it was time to discuss the matter with Smith.So Moore set up a lunch at 1:30 p.m. last Wednesday at the RoyalSonesta Hotel in Cambridge.In the course of two hours, Moore said, Smith went fromdefensive to silent and finally to reflective.
She admitted thatfour of the people were figments of her imagination.The four fabricated characters include: the cancer patientClaire; a worker named Jim Burke who was erecting barricades forthe Boston Marathon; a cosmetologist named Janine Byrne, who wascommenting on the case of kidnapping defendant Stephen Fagan; and awoman named Dorothy Gibson whose young daughter was getting apainful hair makeover for Easter.
Burke and Byrne are basicallysupporting characters in those columns, but Claire was the heart ofthe column and the fact that Gibson didn't exist cast doubt on theentirety of that column.
All four columns were published in Apriland May of this year.When Moore returned from his meeting with Smith on Wednesdayafternoon, a top-level meeting was convened with him, Storin,Donovan, Mulvoy and Managing Editor/Administration Louisa Williams.At that point, the decision was made to seek Smith's resignation,address the staff, and publish a story explaining what hadhappened.But questions about whether Barnicle embellishes his column havepercolated over the years, with matters really heating up in theearly '90s.
A primary catalyst was Dershowitz's charge thatBarnicle had manufactured a sexist and boorish quote about him in1990.
When the Harvard law professor went on television at thattime to invite anyone else who'd been similarly treated to stepforward, it unearthed the story of a Dorchester gas stationproprietor who sued for libel over a 1973 column, claiming thathe'd never made a racist statement Barnicle attributed to him.
Thecase had ended with the Globe paying the plaintiff a total of about$40,000.
(In the wake of a Globe review of all of Barnicle's columnssince 1996, Storin Saturday expressed confidence in Barnicle'sintegrity.
(See accompanying story, Page A28)).But it seems clear that Storin who left the Globe in 1985,returned in 1992 and became editor in 1993 was concerned aboutBarnicle's reputation when questions about Smith's 1995 columnsfirst came to his attention.When Assistant Managing Editor Walter V. Robinson, who initiallyflagged the possible 1995 Smith fabrications, identified newconcerns earlier this year, it triggered the chain of events thatended with Smith's stunning departure.There was also one nagging item from Smith's past when she wasan editorial assistant at the Chicago Sun-Times.
According to GlobeArts Editor Scott Powers, who was then assistant managing editorfor features at the Sun-Times, errors in a Smith review and thefact that she did not pick up her press tickets generatedsuspicions that she did not attend an Elton John concert she wroteabout in 1986.
According to Powers, Smith insisted she had attendedthe concert, decided to use lawn tickets purchased by a friend, andproduced notes from the event.
There was never any proof or findingthat she missed the concert.
But the Sun-Times published acorrection about song titles and John's attire and Smith was barredfrom writing for several months.LYON, France Iran's soccer coach carries a green card from theGreat Satan.
Jalal Talebi's family has lived in California fornearly two decades.
His youngest son just graduated from Palo AltoHigh and is bound for UCLA.
His wife has a skin care business and avegetarian restaurant near Stanford.
Talebi used to coach at alocal junior college.
He likes America and Americans.But all week long, people have been bringing up 1979 to him.America Held Hostage.
Iran, the outlaw state.
Revolution, war,terrorism, embargos, fractured relations between Washington andTehran.
It all comes back because somebody pulled two balls out ofa bowl last December and matched the US and Iran in a World Cupsoccer match here Sunday.And yet, for many of Talebi's countrymen back home, it is muchmore.
Though the two governments have been edging closer tonormalcy, nudged last week by Secretary of State MadeleineAlbright, Uncle Sam is still widely regarded with hatred andmistrust in Iran.So an Iranian victory in the Stade Gerland Sunday (it's a nightgame here in France) would all but knock the US out of the world'smost important sporting event and be a coup of enormous symbolicand emotional significance.Sunday's match, the first ever between the US and Iran, is beingtouted as a bit of political serendipity, bringing two togethercountries that have had no diplomatic relations for nearly twodecades.After 20 years away from soccer's global stage, the Iranians aredelighted merely to be here.
Iran was Asia's dominant team in the'70s, winning three continental championships and qualifying forthe 1976 Olympics and the 1978 World Cup.
Then the revolution andthe Iraq war brought soccer in Iran to a halt.Talebi settled his family in San Jose, opened a supermarket andtook a coaching job at De Anza community college.
While the Islamicgovernment back home railed against the Great Satan, Talebi feltwelcome as an Iranian in the States.For Talebi, the serendipity is not that his country is playingAmerica but that his country is playing in the Cup at all.The Iranians are here by a near-miracle.
They did not win theirqualifying group last year.
They could not beat Japan in the Asianplayoff.
They could not beat Australia at home in the first matchof their last-chance playoff and trailed, 2-0, with 14 minutes leftin the return match at Melbourne.
Somehow, the Iranians pulled offa draw and got a ticket to France because they had scored more roadgoals.Whatever happens inside the Stade Gerland Sunday, the Iraniansplan to shake hands with the Americans after the final whistle andexchange jerseys.Much of the international noise over the match hasn't reachedthe players.
The Iranian team has been secluded in a bakery schoolin Yssingeaux, a 90-minute drive southwest of the city.
TheAmerican team is quartered in an ivy-covered chateau in the winecountry an hour's drive north.The players know each other by reputation and by jersey number.They're vaguely aware of the recent diplomatic dance steps betweentheir governments.
But for most of them, what happened in 1979 ishazy history.Some 20 years later, 22 men from the United States and Iran willmarch onto a small patch of grass in France, many of them hardlyable to remember the details of the 1979 international crisis.They will arrive to an entirely different corner of the world, asnug little French city called Lyon, which is known for temptingwines and quaint sidewalk cafes.They will be bound only by their nation's political pasts andthe ramifications tied to this day for more than six months.And the only thing at their feet will be a soccer ball, whichthey all know is in the same shape as the world.Players and coaches from both sides have known the factorsinvolved in today's game for months.
Only recently has the gamebecome even more pertinent in a World Cup sense both teams need avictory to keep hopes alive for advancing in the tournament.For 90 minutes today in Lyon, the world will watch the UnitedStates and Iran battle on a soccer field not just because of thingslike the Group F standings, the opportunity of earning points inthe round-robin and putting on a display of terrific soccer.The world surely will watch as much because of what was put ondisplay nearly 20 years ago in Tehran, the 444 terroristic days,the tense history and lingering ill feelings by people of bothnations.In truth, the painful and bitter feelings between the nationshardly have tempered over the years.Diplomatic relations between the nations remain severed and itwas not until last week, perhaps in an effort to ease pressures fortoday's game, that U.S. government officials even hinted atrelaxing its strong stance against Iran.Both President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albrightaddressed the U.S.-Iran game last week, using the opportunity tomention the possible resumption of diplomatic relations with Iran.Still, last month the U.S. State Department called Iran theworld's most active sponsor of terrorism and the Iranian governmenthas made no secret of its involvement in the game.
Nationalofficials will be present in the stadium today and all businessactivity is expected to be suspended in Iran during the game.The Iranian government also condemned a French televisionstation's showing of the movie Not Without My Daughter, which itsaid depicts Iranians in a negative light.
The government evenbriefly hinted at pulling its team from the World Cup.Meanwhile, in the middle of it all are the players and coaches,the majority of whom have announced that they will try to spurnFIFA's World Cup edict of immediately leaving the field in favor ofan age-old soccer tradition trading jerseys at the final whistle.Of course.
But today the world will watch these nations playsoccer because of the way things were from 1979-1981 and what ithas done to these political nemeses since.SAN FRANCISCO Fort Worth resident Mark Brooks watched hischance to move into contention during the third round disappearwith a triple bogey at the 288-yard seventh hole, the shortestpar-4 at the Olympic Club.Brooks pulled his drive into a bush, forcing him to take anunplayable lie.
His recovery shot kicked into the rough and Brookseventually three-putted for a seven.
After playing the first sixholes at even par, Brooks was 6 over on the final 12, dropping to12 over for the tournament.Brooks' third-round highlight proved to be an 18-foot chip-infor birdie from the rough surrounding the 13th green.Tiger Woods, meanwhile, opened with a birdie and did not takeanother in his final 17 holes.
He registered consecutive bogeys atNos.
3 and 4, then parred in to shoot 71 and drop to 7 over.Woods, who did not three-putt during his victory at the 1997Masters, has two four-putts and three three-putts on his card atthe 1998 Open.Rolling with Casey Perhaps appropriately, disabled golfer CaseyMartin played the third round with the only player in the field whomight have an inkling of what his physical condition would be like:Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal.Olazabal's career was presumed over in 1996, when he was unableto walk 18 holes without severe pain because of what was initiallydiagnosed as severe arthritis.
Eventually, Olazabal's conditionimproved and he returned to the European Tour in 1997 after an18-month absence.Martin, who suffers from a rare circulatory disorder that makesit difficult for him to walk, was granted a federal court order inFebruary allowing him to use a cart in competition at professionalevents.Chris Perry recorded the first hole-in-one of the tournament byknocking a 6-iron into the cup at the 176-yard 13th hole.
It markedhis third career ace in tournament competition but his first at theOpen.On occasion, the Rev.
Jack Spaulding of St. Thomas the ApostleChurch in Phoenix has delivered messages during prayer services ina monotone voice, in the first person, as if Jesus or Mary werespeaking directly through him.I confess, I didn't ask him.
A man can't escape a boyhood spentin parochial school, where he leaned the hard way not to beflip with priests or nuns.He also learned, however, that people make a church, not buildings.
And the nuns at St. Thomas are being forced out of theirconvent for no good, and certainly no holy reason.The church sits like a birthday cake at 24th Street andCampbell, a monument to spiritual chic since Charlie Keating poured$50,000 into the place to spruce it up for a family wedding.Benedictine sisters began teach ing at the parish school 45years ago.
That's why the convent was built.
Over the years, thechurch and the school changed.
There's only one Benedictineteaching in the school, now.
The convent houses 12 nuns, four ofthem Benedictines and the rest from other orders.
`CHOSE CONVENT LIFE' According to Ella Mae Bleier, a member of the parish council,the growing church needs room to expand.Plans originally had called for temporary buildings to beinstalled for use next year by the school.
In May, however, FatherSpaulding informed the nuns of a new idea.
A house was availablefor sale across the street and it was big enough, he said, toaccommodate the four Benedictine sisters.
The convent would then beconverted to church use.Since the other nuns aren't part of the order that first taughtat the school, parish officials say they have no obligation toaccommodate them.Still, the pastor promised to help the other sisters.
In themeantime, the Benedictines decided not to live in the new house.They also said no to having an upstairs portion of the parishoffices renovated specially for them.
They did so partly becausethe facilities didn't meet their needs and partly as a show ofsolidarity.In some Catholic dioceses, nuns being displaced are given a yearto make arrangements.
Phoenix doesn't have such a policy, althoughI'm told one is now being considered.Three months.
Six months.
A year.
It doesn't matter.
A nun toldme, years ago, that we should only discard our bad habits.
We don'tneed another denomination that chooses economical over ecumeni cal.We already have houses of worship called General Motors, Mi crosoftand ATT.Ella Mae Bleier said the parish did all it could for the nuns.There are no bad guys in this conflict, she told me.Maybe so.
But, if the Lord really does speak through FatherSpauld ing, I hope He takes a moment soon to retell a story I firstheard from a nun.
It's about a nice young couple and their babyboy.And how there was no room for them at the inn.
E.J.
Montini can be reached at 444-8978 or at ed.montini pni.comvia e-mail.
But Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie and officials of theNational Thoroughbred Racing Association are already trying todetermine how the product can be improved next year.Sellers kept his momentum going yesterday, too, riding Colcon toa perfectly timed come-from-behind victory in the Locust GroveHandicap at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., a $150,000 race.The attendance of 16,156 for the All-Star competition was almost1,000 more than last year, and betting was up, too.
Lone Star fanswagered nearly $700,000 just on the four All-Star races, andout-of-town simulcast sites pumped in an extra $1.89 million.The new All-Star Wager grossed only $109,000 in bettingnationwide, almost half of that at Lone Star, but the generouspayoffs almost guarantee it receives more attention next year.
Thepredictable $2 trifecta of Sellers, Julie Krone and Jerry Baileypaid $670.60.Next year, Johnsen says the local events surrounding theAll-Star evening could be bolstered, perhaps with a golf tournamentor an expanded luncheon.
And someday, he said, a foreign jockeysuch as Frankie Dettori or Texas native Cash Asmussen could beinvited to participate.Mastery's Gamble, who three weeks ago at Lone Star breezed to a6 3/4-length front-running victory at seven furlongs in the TwoAltazano Stakes, showed her heels to Texas-bred females againyesterday going a mile.The 6-year-old mare set an easy pace, turned back a challenge byrival Two Steppin' Toni entering the stretch, and opened up to winthe $50,000 Texas Legends Stakes by 3 1/4 lengths.Fortunate Smile, the Texas-bred ship-in from Massachusetts whowent to post at the same 3-to-2 odds as Mastery's Gamble, falteredin the 100-degree heat and finished last in the five-horse field.
SHOWDOWN IN DOUBT Skip Away and Gentlemen perhaps the two best older horses intraining were already being pointed for the $1 million race atHollywood Park in Inglewood, Calif. And on Friday, trainer BobBaffert announced that Silver Charm will probably also run.But as is usually the case in horse racing, there are no surethings.On the same day Baffert revealed his decision, Skip Away threwhis exercise rider at Belmont Park and ran loose for 20 minutes.Yesterday his front legs were slightly swollen, although he was notlame or sore, trainer Sonny Hine said.For months, Hine has been savoring a meeting with Silver Charm.Now he doesn't know what will happen.On occasion, the Rev.
Jack Spaulding of St. Thomas the ApostleChurch in Phoenix has delivered messages during prayer services ina monotone voice, in the first person, as if Jesus or Mary werespeaking directly through him.I confess, I didn't ask him.
A man can't escape a boyhood spentin parochial school, where he leaned the hard way not to beflip with priests or nuns.He also learned, however, that people make a church, not buildings.
And the nuns at St. Thomas are being forced out of theirconvent for no good, and certainly no holy reason.The church sits like a birthday cake at 24th Street andCampbell, a monument to spiritual chic since Charlie Keating poured$50,000 into the place to spruce it up for a family wedding.Benedictine sisters began teach ing at the parish school 45years ago.
That's why the convent was built.
Over the years, thechurch and the school changed.
There's only one Benedictineteaching in the school, now.
The convent houses 12 nuns, four ofthem Benedictines and the rest from other orders.
`CHOSE CONVENT LIFE' According to Ella Mae Bleier, a member of the parish council,the growing church needs room to expand.Plans originally had called for temporary buildings to beinstalled for use next year by the school.
In May, however, FatherSpaulding informed the nuns of a new idea.
A house was availablefor sale across the street and it was big enough, he said, toaccommodate the four Benedictine sisters.
The convent would then beconverted to church use.Since the other nuns aren't part of the order that first taughtat the school, parish officials say they have no obligation toaccommodate them.Still, the pastor promised to help the other sisters.
In themeantime, the Benedictines decided not to live in the new house.They also said no to having an upstairs portion of the parishoffices renovated specially for them.
They did so partly becausethe facilities didn't meet their needs and partly as a show ofsolidarity.In some Catholic dioceses, nuns being displaced are given a yearto make arrangements.
Phoenix doesn't have such a policy, althoughI'm told one is now being considered.Three months.
Six months.
A year.
It doesn't matter.
A nun toldme, years ago, that we should only discard our bad habits.
We don'tneed another denomination that chooses economical over ecumeni cal.We already have houses of worship called General Motors, Mi crosoftand ATT.Ella Mae Bleier said the parish did all it could for the nuns.There are no bad guys in this conflict, she told me.Maybe so.
But, if the Lord really does speak through FatherSpauld ing, I hope He takes a moment soon to retell a story I firstheard from a nun.
It's about a nice young couple and their babyboy.And how there was no room for them at the inn.
E.J.
Montini can be reached at 444-8978 or at ed.montini pni.comvia e-mail.
MONTREAL John Smoltz's return to action went perfectly andprecisely to the pitch Saturday night.
Working seven strong andpain-free innings, Smoltz gave up just an unearned run and struckout a season-high eight as the Braves beat Montreal 5-1.In his first start since lasting just two innings May 23 andthen going on the disabled list for the second time this season,Smoltz displayed no pain in his pitching elbow and little for theExpos to hit.
He was much sharper than in his two minor-leaguerehab assignments and got a first-inning, three-run homer from JavyLopez.
Working on a 90-pitch limit, Smoltz (5-1) left after givingup just four hits and registering his last strikeout on his 90thpitch.Lopez quickly complied.
After Walt Weiss led off the night withthe first of his three straight singles and Chipper Jones singledWeiss to second, both players advanced when Carlos Perez stumbledin his delivery, fell off the mound and dropped the ball for abalk.
On the next pitch, Lopez crushed a two-out, three-run homer.It was Lopez's 16th home run, a figure he didn't reach lastseason until July 26th.
It was also his fourth homer against theExpos, third in eight days.
And it gave him 52 RBIs, just 17 shy ofhis career season high.It also gave Smoltz an early three-run security blanket.
Notthat he needed it.
After the second Expo batter, Jose Vidro, linedan opposite-field double on a good down-and-away breaking ball,Smoltz retired the next 11 hitters.
At one point, he struck out sixof eight, fanning the side swinging in the third inning.When Montreal finally broke through in the fifth, it was anunearned run.
After Chipper Jones' booted Rondell White's leadoffgrounder for a two-base error, White took third on a flyout, thenscored on Chris Widger's sacrifice fly.
But that merely cut it to5-1.Gerald Williams, again capitalizing on another rare start,followed Weiss' leadoff single in the fifth with the second of histhree singles.
Chipper Jones, scratched from Friday's embarrassing14-1 loss with the flu, then doubled both Braves home.His new left-handed rifle.
A shooter depends on his eye the waya kicker does his leg.
But the freak accident forced Shank toswitch the eye he uses to sight the target and, by extension, shootfrom the left side of his body.After a 10-month layoff, Shank returned to the sport a year agoand placed fourth at the Junior Olympics three months ago.Just as he had to switch from right to left, Shank alsotransferred his longtime wish of attending West Point to thereality of entering the Naval Academy, which recruited him for itsrifle team.For three months after the accident, Shank couldn't see at all.He spent the first two weeks on the couch deep in thought, but notself-pity, even though he knew if he'd worn his glasses and not hiscontacts, he would've been fine.Shank never doubted he'd be able to see again.
Looking at hisbrown eyes, there's no way for an outsider to tell which one hasthe implanted lens.Shank, who got his first gun at age 6 and shot at GI Joes, golfballs and pop cans, will report to Annapolis next month with amedical waiver.
He jokes that he won't be a fighter pilot, butthat's OK, because he's more interested in engineering and physics.Shank has worked long hours with O'Connor this week to make upfor a month spent getting into shape for the academy.He hopes to score 590 out of 600 during the 1 hour and 45minutes he has to record 60 shots.SAN FRANCISCO -- Leave it to Jack Nicklaus to put the U.S. Openin perspective, while all about him there is much wailing, groaningand gnashing of teeth.
A pro from Ashtabula, who also owns cartrights and runs weekend dog fights, snarls about the narrowfairways.
A reformed alcoholic, and assorted other tour types,complain about pin placements.Nicklaus had just come in Friday from sinking a putt from hereto Rhode Island, on the 18th green, damned and cursed by a chorusof bellyachers, that kept him in town two more days.
He'd made thecut in the U.S. Open at The Olympic Club, playing with an honoraryexemption, assailed by Frank Hannigan, who left the USGA for TV, asout of order.
In this field of all the best, playing for thechampionship of the nation, on a course that would bring a Marineto his knees, the Old Man was going the distance.What this did was send him out Saturday morning with a largebody, 230 pounds of vagabond pro from Illinois named Tom Sipula, aqualifier who plays the Canadian Tour without distinction.
Sipulasaid he wasn't awed by the pairing, but he started out bogey,bogey, double bogey and never recovered.
Nicklaus beat him bythree.
Nicklaus had squeaked in under the wire at 147.
A pro fromOklahoma, Rocky Walcher, had made a par putt on the treacherous18th green for the same number, and that lopped off 15 otherplayers, including Tom Watson, Corey Pavin and Hale Irwin, all at148.
An even 60 players made the cut, the USGA standard.Now a winner of the British Open, he has been knocking on thedoor of this championship for four years, but nobody answered.
Hebegan this round as hot as a Savannah summer.
Chipped to three feeton the first hole, to three feet on the second, and put his teeshot 10 feet from the pin on the third.
He missed the next threefairways.
Three birdies followed by three bogeys.Gradually during the Pacific afternoon, red figures dropped fromthe leaderboard.
Matt Kuchar, the kid with the fetching smile,disappeared completely in the jaws of a 76.
Lehman and Bob Tway,who formed his game at Atlanta Country Club, were left to chasePayne Stewart, who has now been out front at each sundown.SAN FRANCISCO It's a story that Boys' Life would not publish.It's fiction so far-fetched, you'd send the Hardy Boys intogut-breaking laughter.
Surely, the schmaltz police would surroundyou.OK, just for laughs, can you run that by me again?
You say thekid, a gangly golfer who grins more than a guilty politician, turns20 on Father's Day while he's playing in a U.S. Open as an amateurand beating many of the world's best players?
Are you serious?Granted, he's the U.S.
Amateur champion from Georgia Tech andarguably the best college player in the nation, but what's that?
Afinal round on Father's Day, with his father, Peter, on his bag?As a rule, Kuchar had been following double-bogeys with birdies,and staying cooler than the ocean breeze.
As a matter of fact,after playing two days with Kuchar, defending champion Ernie Elswas ready to say the kid would be right there today, with amind-boggling reason to remember a 20th birthday and Father's Day,1998.It's no surprise that Kuchar proudly defends his father.
Peter,the insurance and investment man from Lake Mary, Fla., is livingevery dad's dream, having caddied for his son during an Amateurvictory and now in two majors.
While Kuchar obviously drawsinspiration and finds a calm from his presence, it's Dad who getsso demonstrative by cheering, jumping and college-type high-fivesthat he occasionally disturbs fellow caddies and players.That a son doesn't care to rob his father of a lifetime thrill,regardless that he gets carried away, only adds to the son'scharacter.Fun is the optimum word for both Matt and his Dad.
It is costingPeter about $30,000 to play around the world this summer they arein Scotland for the Loch Lomond Invitational in two weeks, followedby the British Open in England but surely it will return to thefamily kitty in the near future.
How near is the real question.
Forthe first time, Matt is waffling a bit when asked about the proissue.
College is fun, yes, and he has two years remaining.
But alot has happened lately.
It's obvious he can play with these guys,or outplay them.
He began the third round seven shots ahead ofTiger Woods.The death of Professor Jonathon William Faulkner was accompaniedby a curious inheritance left to his students: $1 million for theone who could solve a mystery hidden in his 10-room mansion.With that fictional premise, a Scottsdale company luredthousands of computer sleuths into buying a $50 game andcompeting in an arduous contest that promised $1 million to thereal-life winner.The twist has sent angry players of the Treasure Quest softwaregame on a new mission trying to find out whether theaward-winning games is as bogus as Professor Faulkner's will.The game is based on the mystery left behind by ProfessorFaulkner, as revealed in a series of computer screens.
Players facea labyrinth of about 1,200 clues involving word and number riddlestapping everything from ancient Hebrew letters to Morse code toliterary quotations.In addition to solving the puzzle, winners were required tosubmit an essay of at least 1,000 words explaining their answer.Telephone operators list only one Dreizen in San Francisco Pamela.
She did not respond to a phone message, and computersearches under that name lead nowhere.Gnant said P. Dreizen asked not to be identified further.
Headded that game rules don't require the winner to go public, and heis morally bound to respect Dreizen's request.Gnant said he didn't release the winning essay because Dreizenasked him not to, and because it contains personal information.Still, Gnant refused to answer basic questions such as: How manypeople were on the winning team?
Is Dreizen male or female?
Whenwas the winning entry submitted?That date is critical to players who say they came up with themystery answer more than a year ago.This week, Gnant acknowledged that Wigowsky solved the riddlebefore Dreizen, but was disqualified because he did not place acontest registration number in the appropriate place.He said there was no celebration of the final results becausehis company has switched from computer games to CD-ROM movies, andhe didn't want to spend money on a victory bash.
SKEPTICS UNSATISFIED Bill Boucher, a Colchester, Vt., postal supervisor who spentvacations working the puzzle, said Treasure Quest is so complexthat no one could solve it alone, yet the winner's name neversurfaced during two years of chat room exchanges.In fact, he is one of several players who shifted theirattention from the game mystery to Sirius business.Among their discoveries, confirmed by Gnant: The publishingcompany has cut its staff from 80 employees to 25, closed itsheadquarters and moved operations into a warehouse.
Gnant saidthose moves reflect Sirius' new direction, not financial problems.James Beckett, a 62-year-old retiree from Corning, N.Y., found a1991 commercial bankruptcy involving another Gnant business,Express Technologies Inc., and lawsuits against Sirius allegingunpaid debts.
Gnant said the complaints arose from disputes withsuppliers over unsatisfactory products.Suspicion about the winner also stems from a dispute over keyliterary quotes used in solving the riddle.
Wigowsky and others saythe phrases contain errors.
Gnant denies there are mistakes andcomplains that every bit of information he gives out gets twisted:Disgruntled players plastered Web sites and discussion roomswith questions, conspiracy theories and a mock game called TreasureQuash.
At least one man logged a complaint with Internet FraudWatch.Beckett said he assumed the game was legitimate because of theaccolades and media hoopla.
But problems soon emerged when theTreasure Quest mastermind, Cerise Casper of Washington, sued SiriusPublishing over a contract dispute.
Before that case was settledfor an undisclosed sum, Casper reportedly made computer contactwith Treasure Quest participants.DALLAS For a brief moment yesterday afternoon, Houston Rocketscenter Hakeem Olajuwon allowed himself to wonder how different hiscareer would have turned out had Michael Jordan been his teammate.Before the 1984 NBA draft, Ray Patterson general manager ofthe Rockets came close to trading Ralph Sampson to Chicago forthe third pick of the '84 draft, which belonged to the Bulls.
TheRockets used the top pick that year to take Olajuwon.The Bulls used the third pick to draft Jordan.
Just imagine howthe NBA landscape would have changed had Olajuwon and Jordan beenteammates.Olajuwon was in Dallas at Don Carter's All-Star Bowling Lanes toparticipate in a celebrity bowling tournament staged by Holy LandFoundation.
The foundation helps raise money for orphansponsorships, the homeless and scholarship programs.Lately, critics have said that if Jordan hadn't left the NBA toplay baseball, the Bulls would have also won NBA titles in 1994 and'95 the years the Rockets were league champions.
Olajuwon saidsuch statements are absurd.Between them, the Bulls and Rockets have won the past eight NBAtitles.
But they've never met in the NBA Finals.
It's a matchupOlajuwon believes would be intriguing.Olajuwon, 35, is bracing for the NBA's second lockout in threeyears.
The NBA and the NBA Players Association are trying tonegotiate a contract, and a lockout will likely be imposed unless adeal is struck by July 1.The Rockets have the 14th, 16th and 18th picks in Wednesday'sNBA draft, and Olajuwon said it's imperative that the picks areused wisely.Olajuwon will have a magnetic resonance imaging exam on hisright knee next month, with hopes of clearing up problems that ledto the least-productive season of his 14-year career.
He hadsurgery on his left knee this season, forcing him to miss acareer-high 35 games, and leading to him averaging career-lows inscoring (16.4)) and field-goal percentage (.483).ATLANTA -- Barring great fortune, the draft no longer is the wayto build a strong team in the NBA, and the next edition onWednesday bears testimony to that.Of course, under current rules, a player drafted Wednesday canbecome a free agent after three seasons, or about the time hestarts to blossom as a player.
That's one of the changes the NBAwants in its working agreement with the players association.
Teamsare asking for options that will add two or three more seasons to arookie contract.
That would serve to hold down salaries of youngplayers and also protect the investments of teams that arebuilding.Sund recalls that in his years as player personnel chief inDallas, the Mavs thrived on the draft.Among the projected top players in the draft, guards Mike Bibby,Paul Pierce, Vince Carter and Larry Hughes, forwards Robert Traylorand Antawn Jamison and center Nazr Mohammed are all underclassmen.German Dirk Nowitzki and Houston high-schooler Rashard Lewis didnot go to college.
And there are three others also making the jumpfrom high school.Although Tim Duncan of San Antonio and Keith Van Horn of NewJersey both stayed in college four years, few are induced to followtheir example.Over the last six years, only a handful of players took theteams that drafted them from the lottery to the playoffs.
Thenumber includes Kevin Garnett and Stephon Marbury (Minnesota),Grant Hill (Detroit), Shaquille O'Neal and Penny Hardaway (Orlando)and Alonzo Mourning (Charlotte).ATLANTA -- Please forgive today's hysterical amount of newsprintdevoted to a few baseball games in June, but we feel a little pulpfriction is appropriate here.Big news, the approach of any Braves series that is more thanthe usual corporate outing or a nice day for the Newnan PonyLeague.
You've got to understand that this team, by its consistentdrone atop the standings, can get a little stupefying during theregular season.
We've gone through all the usual adjectives in the'90s, done just about all the gymnastics possible over the NationalLeague East's Atlanta Foregone Conclusions.
There's so little leftto give when they throw at you, as they have these last 10 days, asteady low-fat diet of Expo and Marlin.So, when they're off Monday for two games at The House GeorgeWants To Demolish, returning directly here for two more against theNew York Yankees, it's as good a reason as any to over-react.
Abest-of-four might not be the perfect format for deciding the fateof civilization, but that's how they do dress rehearsals for theWorld Series these days.Know why it's a big deal?
It's something different, a boot tothe butt of complacency.These are the kinds of games that justify the entire concept ofinterleague play.
All the arguments against it evaporate over theheat of the next week.Anything that gets Andruw Jones back to the Bronx, where the kidhomered in his first two World Series at-bats, is worthwhile.Apparently, they're getting the same sort of tingle about Junebaseball in cosmopolitan New York.
The press boxes in both citiesreportedly will be filled, a hopeful sign that America stillregards a good baseball game almost as highly as a Nigeria-Paraguaysoccer game (that 1-1 tie is scheduled for Wednesday).Even as you're reading this, I'm sure the New York Post ispreparing bold headlines for this Series:A warning.
We have been through this once before.
Last season,it was a visit by the Baltimore Ripkens that got everyone in afroth.
Neither team kept its Fall Classic appointment, there beingno bacon behind the sizzle.True, it's not yet the All-Star break.
Injuries have juststarted to have their say note the recent pains to importantYankees Bernie Williams and Derek Jeter.
There's too much baseballleft to be played.A few tickets remain for the two-game set in New York afterofficials decided to release a few thousand tickets on Friday.Yankee Stadium, with a capacity of 57,545, is expected to sell outbefore gametime.
Scalpers in New York are getting more than $300for box seats close to the field.
At Turner Field, which seats50,062, the Braves will sell 186 skyline seats and probably 3,000or so $5 standing-room-only tickets.
The skyline seats, which cost$1 each, go on sale about three hours before gametime, and then theSRO tickets will go on sale.
The series will give the Yankees a bigattendance lift.
The club has averaged 32,982 a game, butattendance has dropped below 28,000 during Monday and Tuesdaygames.
The Braves average 38,088 for the season, but that numberdrops to 34,649 for games on Wednesday and Thursday.Both press boxes will be overflowing.
New York will use its twoauxiliary boxes to accommodate more than 250 media requests.Atlanta's main box will fill up with double- and triple-staffing bythe New York papers.
There have been more than 150 requests, wellabove the normal weekly average of 30.That was ESPN Magazine's headline recently for an article aboutthe significance and excitement surrounding the four games.
Themagazine matched the teams for a seven-game series and predictedthe Yankees would win in seven.ATLANTA -- When the four-game series between the Braves andYankees ends Thursday night, baseball fans will have a better ideaof how these teams match up.
But the AJC didn't want to wait thatlong, so we asked Diamond Mind Baseball, a computer baseball game,to handle the simulation.Diamond Mind fed into its computers a detailed set of ratingsfor batting, pitching, fielding and other baseball skills.
Thecompany simulated every pitch, even factoring in pitcher fatiguebased on the number of pitches thrown.
The game includes a computermanager who made all tactical decisions.While both teams have injuries New York's Bernie Williams isout, for example the AJC elected to play the computer games withthe teams at full strength.
The pitching matchups for each gamewere projected last Monday, but have changed.
The lineups are basedon the players the teams typically use against right- andleft-handed pitchers.
Players were rated by current and pastperformances, with emphasis on how they are playing now.And the results?
The Yankees won three of four games.
Atlanta'sbullpen failed to keep leads in two of the games.
Each team scored25 runs, although the Braves outhit the Yankees for average, .295to .252.
For the series, Scott Brosius led the Yankees offensively,going 5-for-15 with two homers.
Andres Galarraga hit three homersand drove in eight runs for the Braves.The Yankees scored two runs in the first and kept that leaduntil the eighth, when Ryan Klesko homered off reliever MikeStanton, a former Brave.
The Braves then took a two-run lead in the12th on a homer by Andres Galarraga.
But New York got to MarkWohlers in the bottom of the inning and tied the score on aninfield single by Derek Jeter.
Dennis Martinez replaced Wohlers andwalked in the winning run.The Yankees scored early, extending Tom Glavine's first-inningproblems, but he shut down New York through eight innings.
Atlantabuilt an 8-2 lead with Danny Bautista's two-run double andGalarraga's two-run homer.
Yankees starter Andy Pettitte gave upsix runs.
But the Braves bullpen made it interesting again,allowing the Yankees to score three runs in the bottom of the ninthagainst Kerry Ligtenberg.Scott Brosius gave the Yankees the lead with a two-run homer inthe third, then added a solo shot in the fifth.
The Yankees scoredanother in the sixth to lead 4-0 before Atlanta made it 4-3 in thebottom of the sixth on a two-run double by Chipper Jones andGalarraga's RBI single.
New York scored two in the eighth to lead6-3 before the Braves rallied in the ninth.It started off as a pitchers' duel between Kevin Millwood andDavid Wells, but with the scored tied at 1 in the sixth, the Bravesscored seven runs.
Michael Tucker began the rally with a solohomer.
But the Yankees scored four off Millwood in the seventh, andthe Braves bullpen blew up again, with Ligtenberg and Alan Embreecombining to give up four runs.
It was the second blown save of theseries for Atlanta.If baseball ever needed an odd couple among its ownership, itgot it in Turner and Steinbrenner, two of the richest and mostpowerful men in sports.
Ted and George.
George and Ted.
Instead ofwell-worn adjectives to describe the two, just recall that Turnerhas gone to great financial lengths to save the world, andSteinbrenner has gone to great lengths to control it.George's main concern at the moment is whether he can force thecity of New York to tear down Yankee Stadium and build him a newballpark.
Ted's main concern is about nuclear testing in India andPakistan.That makes the upcoming series between the owners' baseballteams more than a brief recreational respite from a mundane summerschedule that has both teams threatening to lead their respectivedivisions by double figures.
In June.But Turner and Atlanta have persevered.
And Steinbrenner and NewYork have persevered.
In fact, that's why George and Ted are fondof each other.When the series begins in New York on Monday, the smartlydressed Steinbrenner will be sitting in his club-level box, rockingaway in his leather recliner.
And when the series shifts back toAtlanta on Wednesday, Turner, in his best free-spirit attire, willbe watching from his seat near the field, jabbering away.Turner will have his hands on a soft drink; Steinbrenner willhave his hands on the controls.Turner, 60, paid $10 million for the Braves in 1976 and becamethe proud owner of one of the worst franchises in sports.Steinbrenner, 67, bought the Yankees in 1973 for $8.8 million andhad one of the best.With good reason.
Both men pushed baseball's envelope.
Turneronce rolled a ball around the bases with his nose and rode anostrich in an on-field race.
He was suspended by commissioner BowieKuhn for taking over as manager for one Braves game.Steinbrenner said he and Turner did not make a bet during the1996 World Series, and he doesn't expect to do it this week.Notes: Neagle broke a personal three-game losing streak in hislast outing Tuesday.
Against a weak Florida lineup, he threw afour-hit shutout and beat the Marlins 7-0.
He struck out nine andwalked none.
On June 5 of last season, Neagle shut out the Expos9-0 in the Big O on a six-hitter.
But he lost his next two startsagainst the Expos, lasting six innings here in a 6-2 loss last July6 before being pounded for four homers in 5 2/3 innings in a 7-1loss Sept. 21 in Atlanta.
Rondell White homered twice that day andhas three career homers against Neagle, batting .360 (9-for-25).Shane Andrews (6-for-14, .429, one homer) also hits Neagle well.Neagle had allowed 14 homers this year just four less than hegave up all last season.
Although he has a losing record, Hermansonhas statistically been Montreal's most effective starter.Even the Yankees.
New York has the best record in baseball, yethas a bullpen ERA of 4.59, eighth among AL clubs and 20th in themajors.
The Braves, with the second-best mark in the majors, havean ERA of 4.41.
Houston, leading the NL Central, has struggled attimes, as have the Angels, now on top in the AL West.
The averagebullpen ERA is 4.54 in the AL, 3.86 in the NL.As a result, after the All-Star break, the top teams are likelyto scramble for relievers on clubs that are out of contention.Don't laugh, but a pitcher like Arizona veteran Gregg Olson, whohas played on seven teams in the last five seasons trying torediscover his glory days with the Orioles, will be of high value.Olson has 10 saves, two more than Atlanta's Mark Wohlers, and abetter ERA, 3.82, to 5.63 for Wohlers.
The top name out there mightwell be Toronto's Randy Myers.
The Blue Jays are having anotherdisappointing season and could be willing to deal Myers, eventhough the price probably would be high.
But Myers has been themajors' most consistent closer the last six years, averaging 38saves a season.
And while his ERA of 3.90 is high for a topreliever, he has 18 saves this year.Ugueth Urbina of Montreal is another possibility.
Urbina iscosting the Expos only $550,000, but Montreal might be tempted ifit gets some starting pitching prospects, which the organizationlacks.
Urbina has 17 saves and a 1.56 ERA on a team that is 29-42and has an ERA of 4.46.But the player who might be the easiest to obtain isPhiladelphia's Mark Leiter, who has done a good job filling in fordisabled Ricky Bottalico.
Leiter has 13 saves, but Bottalico isclose to returning.
The Phillies, who have built a nice youngnucleus, can afford to deal Leiter.NEW ORLEANS Of the options Marion Jones had on the table whenshe left the North Carolina campus with her communications degreelast spring, the one that seemed the riskiest was a track and fieldcareer.
She'd made a splash as a 16-year-old at the 1992 OlympicTrials, finishing fourth in the 200 meters.
But she'd broken a foottwice trying to ready herself for the 1996 Atlanta Games nevermaking it to the trials.And besides, a pro basketball career looked like money in thebank.
The two new leagues were hustling for talent.
Here Jones wasan All-American at Carolina, whose point guard skills had led theTar Heels to a national title only a couple of years earlier.Yet to the surprise of many, she ventured down the road of lessguarantees and now has put herself in position to be crowned thequeen of U.S. track and field.
Jones only aided her callingSaturday night, putting her winning stamp on both the 100 metersand long jump at the USA Track and Field Championships.Her 100-meter time of 10.72 was seventh-fastest ever, comingafter a championship-meet record 10.71 in the semifinals.
About anhour after her sprint victory, Jones went 23 feet, 8 inches on heropening effort to win the long jump.
And then, despite pulling upwith 30 meters left, followed it up with a 22.46 in the semis ofthe 200 second-best in the world this year.Today, she's a heavy favorite to seal her triple with a victoryin the 200 meters.
With a sharp eye on Sydney in 2000, Jones istalking a possible five gold medal performance (including tworelays) something never accomplished in the sport.
Here she isearning well into six-figures, more than the pro leagues couldoffer.
And this on top of her Nike shoe deal.If there was any rust, Jones shed it quickly last summer enroute to winning the 100 meters at both the national and WorldChampionships.
Track Field News was impressed enough to name herWomen's Athlete of the Year not just in America, but the world.Forget about recent American sprinters Gail Devers and GwenTorrence, they couldn't touch the times Jones is putting down.
Sheowns the world's best performance this year in her three events 100, 200 and long jump and for the first time in a decadeFlorence Griffith-Joyner's sprint records are in jeopardy.
And yetbecause of her awesome speed, Jones' best showing yet may come inthe long jump.At the Prefontaine Classic last month, Jones took the long jumpwith a 23-11 3/4 leap, 7 3/4 inches off the world record in onlyher sixth major long jump competition.
That's without much trainingand with only basic technique.Matt Kuchar's brush with immortality notwithstanding, the 98thU.S.
Open has been all Payne Stewart.
If the storyline changestoday and Stewart fails to finish off a wire-to-wire performance the first in a U.S. Open since Tony Jacklin in 1970 he would besurprised if it involves a self-destruction.While others were struggling Saturday in fast, sun-bakedconditions that forced precision shots to find the fairway and someluck to find the cup, Stewart remained solid with an even-par 70,finishing at 3-under-par 207, four strokes ahead of Tom Lehman (68)and former Marietta player Bob Tway (73), who are at 1-over 211.Former Georgia Tech player Stewart Cink of Smyrna is tied foreighth, remaining in contention at 4-over 214 after a 73.Attempting to win his third major today, the champion of the1991 U.S. Open and 1989 PGA figures he only has to maintain whatbrought him to this point.
Stewart, 41, started the week with a 66and hasn't faded.
He began Saturday's round with an eagle at thefirst hole and hung on.If Kuchar, who turns 20 today, were to manage it now, it wouldrequire a miracle.
Finally encountering difficulties Saturday, theU.S.
Amateur champion from Georgia Tech bogeyed four of the lastfive holes for a 76 and stands nine shots back at 5-over 215.It's a different role today for Lehman, who has slept on the54-hole Open lead the last three years and failed to win.
But a 68returned his confidence level after a Friday 75.BOSTON The Boston Globe, answering allegations that its starcolumnist, Mike Barnicle, had fabricated material in his work,announced on Saturday that it had checked 364 of Barnicle's columnsand confirmed the existence of the people who were portrayed andquoted.The announcement came on Saturday in the wake of accusations byProfessor Alan Dershowitz of the Harvard Law School that The Globecould have been guilty of applying a double standard based ongender and race when it asked for the resignation of PatriciaSmith.Ms.
Smith, the only black female columnist at a major Bostonnewspaper, resigned on Thursday after she admitted fabricatinginformation in her columns.Dershowitz, who is white, has accused Barnicle, who is alsowhite, of falsely attributing a racist, sexist quote to him in a1990 column.Editors and librarians at The Globe checked the sources in 364of Barnicle's columns through computer data bases and discussionswith the writer, Matthew V. Storin, the editor of The Globe,announced on Saturday.The Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Co., hasoccasionally checked the veracity of its Metro columnists' writingssince January of 1996, but undertook a full review of Barnicle'swork in light of Ms. Smith's admissions and Dershowitz'sallegations.
The Globe is continuing to review the columns writtenby Ms. Smith.LOS ANGELES The lasting image of Michael Jordan's epic,title-clinching shot in Game 6 of the NBA Finals may have to last along time.The NBA and the players association have nine days to break athree-month stalemate on a new labor pact or face anotherowners-imposed lockout of the players the league's second laborstoppage in four years.Free agents will be frozen out.
There will be no trades, noplayer signings, no summer pro leagues, no NBA stars in the WorldChampionships.Worse, the two sides are so entrenched that the NBA faces thevery real possibility of tarnishing its record as the only U.S.professional sports league never to lose regular-season games to alabor stoppage.That's about as much as the two sides agree on, and that's badnews for the league and for fans.
Come July 1 the day free agentsare eligible to negotiate new contracts the owners will almostcertainly impose a lockout, leaving teams and players in limbo.The owners voted earlier this year to reopen the collectivebargaining agreement signed in 1995.
Granik and Billy Hunter,executive director of the players association, have met 10 timessince April 1, and are no closer to reaching agreement on thefundamental issue the clause that allows teams to ignore thesalary cap when re-signing their free agents.Granik and Hunter will meet again Monday in what could be amake-or-break negotiating session.When the players and owners signed the current pact and salarystructure in 1995, they agreed players would receive at least 48percent of NBA revenues.
This season the players' salaries totaled57 percent, far exceeding the 51.8 percent trigger that allowed theowners to reopen the agreement.The league claims 14 to 15 teams will finish in the red thisyear.
The union claims the number is closer to four or five, andthe players association also notes that major-league baseball andthe NFL pay players 60 to 70 percent of revenues.The girl who shot him was angry, he says, because he wouldn'tlend her a 2Pac Shakur CD.Doctors said he may never use his right arm again adevastating diagnosis for an all-star baseball player who dreamedof playing professionally.
Amazingly, he's be gun to throw again.But the shot from that .44 Magnum changed the lives of Lynn andnearly everyone around him, showing just how devastating one bulletcan be.
Here are their stories: Lynn AndrewsLate in the afternoon of Aug. 6, he and his best friend, EddieGardner, were at the trailer where a 14-year-old girl lived withher mother.
They were listening to CDs and tidying up the trailer.Lynn says she shot him on purpose, angry that he would not lether keep the CD at her house for a while longer.
She told police itwas an accident.Lynn stumbled back into the living room and lay on the floor,blood pouring from his chest.
The CD supposedly in dispute keptplaying Shakur's All Eyez on Me.Gunfire is part of the nightly serenade in Lynn's neighborhood,just south of Seventh and Dobbins avenues and not far from thePhoenix Police Academy shooting range.
Still, Lynn never thought hewould get hit.
Before he was shot, Lynn was cocky, he admits, not wanting tolisten to what his parents told him.
Now, when they ask where he isgoing and when he will be back, he answers them with a smile.If he is outside at the park or walking home from school andhears gunfire, he takes off running.The night before Lynn was shot, he played in an all-starbaseball game.
He was hospitalized for three days.
Now, almost ayear later, Lynn can move his arm and even throw a ball.Still, he can't open his hand.
His fingers remain clenched.
He'sem barrassed by it, tucking his hand behind his hip.
But he can puta ball in his hand and release it a throw he's working on.
Lynnstarted back to school as a freshman at South Mountain High inFebruary, writing with his left hand.
Only a few friends know hewas shot.
Few of his teachers know.So, for now, he helps his father coach his little brother'sbaseball team and watches Arizona State University and the ArizonaDia mondbacks on television.He works his arm constantly squeezing balls, lifting weights,stretching.
Lynn wants to play for ASU and then for the Diamondbacks, though he's never been to a game.In an instant, the bullet shattered her assumption that herchildren would be with her always, she would watch them graduatefrom high school, then college, see them go to work, grow intoadulthood.She holds her breath each time.
Before the shooting, she thoughtthe worse thing that could happen to one of her children would be acar accident.
She never imagined the bullet hole in her son'schest.Darlene, 36, is the mother all the neighborhood kids go to,either with their problems at home or for something to eat afterschool.The family has health insurance, so Lynn's medical bills arepaid.
It's not about that, she says.
She simply can't believe thatone child can shoot another with no punishment.The clusters of houses were surrounded by fields.
Kids dugtrenches and played tag.
They climbed trees and ate the fruit forlunch.The shooting has taught Mark that no matter what he does as afather setting curfews, teaching manners and what's right andwrong, instilling a belief in God there's little he can do toprotect his kids once they leave his house.But this man watching Lynn hit grounders to the youngerplayers is not angry.
He takes a drag on a cigarette.The Andrews family is close.
Mark and his wife, married for 16years, hug and kiss their children and tell them that they areloved.
It is hard for this man who survived heart surgery just afew months ago to understand the disregard for life that led to theshooting.Lynn's best friend, Eddie Gardner, 17, a sophomore at SouthMountain High, is uncomfortable talking about the day his buddy wasshot.
He still sees it in his mind, especially when he is trying tosleep.Gardner froze when the gun was fired that day.
He saw Lynnstumble into the living room and to the floor, blood pouring fromhis chest and back.
He ran to the home of a neighbor for help.Meanwhile, the girl called 911.Gardner ran to Lynn's trailer to get his mother.
By the time hegot back, paramedics and police had arrived.
Gardner was out ofbreath.Gardner was so shaken by seeing his best friend shot that he sawa counselor, Darlene says.
The boy has lived in this neighborhoodfor a long time and seen a lot of violence, heard a lot ofgunshots, but this, Darlene says, was too close.The boys live in the same trailer park, go to the same schooland played on the same baseball team.
They are always together.Gardner seems afraid to let Lynn out of his sight, Darlene says.Amber, 13, was outside when Gardner ran up, yelling for her toget her mother.
She ran to the other trailer, but a neighbor kepther from going inside.
Through the doorway, she could see Lynnlying on the floor and all of the blood.Lynn keeps an eye on Amber, a seventh grader, she says, makingsure she stays out of trouble.
He shoos away any boys who show aninterest in her.
And as annoying as her big brother can be, Ambersays she can't imagine life without him.The shooting of her brother has made her afraid.
Her parentsdon't let her go to the mall with friends or to the nearby park asoften.Like his big brother, Mark An drews Jr., 12, plays catcher.
Heis a seventh grader, a smart kid who skipped third grade.
He builta fort in the desert near the trailer park but is not allowed to gothere by himself anymore.
Mark Jr. was outside playing his keyboard when Lynn was shot.He dropped the instrument and ran for the other trailer.There was nothing for a 12-year-old boy to do but wait.
Hewaited while paramedics loaded Lynn into the ambulance and thenwaited at the hospital.
Then, he waited three days for his brotherto come home.The case was turned down for prosecution by a grand jury, saysPhoenix Police Detective Bob Hutchins, a 28-year veteran whoinvestigated the shooting.No one will ever know for sure if the shooting was an accident,he says, adding that he doesn't think the girl shot Lynnintentionally.Problem was, the neighborhood kids even Lynn said at firstthat it had to be an accident.
After all, they were friends.And by the time the grand jury made its decision, the 60-daydead line to submit charges in juvenile court had passed.This has stuck in Hutchins' craw.
Lynn wasn't some gang memberor even a kid asking for trouble.Gaye Cochran, a deputy county attorney, pressed for a charge ofaggravated assault and wanted the girl treated as an adult.The girl knew where the gun was kept.
She had shown it offearlier in the day.
She was apparently upset about not getting theCD.The girl and her family have since moved out of the trailerpark.
Their telephone number is not listed.She registered for classes at South Mountain High on the sameday Lynn returned, and though Lynn has never spoken to her sincethe shooting, his friends and neigh borhood kids have.The police never found the bullet, though neighborhood kids saythe girl's mother dug it out of the wall of the trailer.Gwaltney kicked a 33-yard field goal with no time remaining tolift Georgia to a 23-21 win over Florida at the Georgia Dome.
His48-yard punt with five minutes to play helped swing the fieldposition bad for Georgia most of the game into his team'sfavor.Buford High's Tim Wansley earned Most Valuable Player honors forGeorgia.
The 5-foot-9, 175-pound Georgia signee played bothcornerback and wide receiver and finished as the game's leadingrusher with his only carry, a 69-yard touchdown run on a reverse.Wansley also had the biggest catch of the game, an 18-yardreception on third-and-6 at the Florida 45 that set up thegame-winning field goal.Defensive end Marcus Johnson intercepted a pass and blocked anextra point to earn MVP honors for Florida.
Georgia Tech signee JoeBurns carried the ball 17 times for 42 yards and scored on a 3-yardrun.
Demetrick Moore, a Georgia Military signee from Ware County,added 38 yards on 11 carries.
Washington County graduate TerrenceEdwards was the game's leading receiver with 79 yards, including a70-yard TD catch.
Georgia trailed 21-20 with 2:56 to play when ittook over at the Florida 49.
Two runs netted just four yards.
Onthird down, Regan Torbert was under heavy pressure and unloaded ashort pass to Wansley, who cut off his deep route and turned itinto an 18-yard gain.Two Moore runs resulted in another first down at the Florida 13and gave Georgia coach Rodney Walker a chance to play for thewinning field goal.
Two runs at right tackle left Gwaltney with a33-yard attempt from the right hash mark.WASHINGTON Johnny Chung, a former fund-raiser for theDemocrats turned federal witness, has named several DemocraticParty officials whose aggressive encouragement, his lawyer says,may have caused him to step over the line.Chung has given detailed briefings about his conversations withparty officials to federal investigators, his lawyer, Brian A. Sun,confirmed in an interview.
Sun did not say who the officials were.Chung had previously given federal investigators whatRepublicans said was the first hard evidence that China had plannedto influence the 1996 presidential election.As top Democrats accused Chung of betraying their trust, byapparently acting as a conduit for illegal foreign money into theparty's coffers, Sun offered a stiff retort.Senior Democratic National Committee officials had suspicionsabout Chung as early as March 1995, but that never stoppedDemocrats and White House officials from soliciting money from himin the run-up to the 1996 elections, according to depositions andSenate investigators.The worst fears of top Democrats materialized last month when itwas revealed that Chung had told federal investigators he funnelednearly $100,000 from a Chinese military officer to the Democrats in1996.
Chung gave the Democrats a total of $366,000, which wasreturned after questions about the money.In March, Chung, a southern California businessman, pleadedguilty to charges of campaign-related bank and tax fraud, and he isto be sentenced on July 20.
He is cooperating with the JusticeDepartment's campaign-finance inquiry.From the back of his taxicab one morning in 1996, the DemocraticNational Committee chairman, Donald L. Fowler, saw Chung standingon the doorstep of the committee headquarters near Capitol Hill.Government statistics say domes tic violence is underreported by10 to 1.
Having experienced more than 40 physical assaults, withonly four resulting in arrest and conviction of the batterer, Iguess I fit the statistic.But I am not a statistic.
I am a woman, with a name, a life, afamily.
Please remember that be yond statistics are real people somebody's mother, daughter, sister and friend.In domestic violence, abuses oc cur mainly in private.
Goodpeople do not seem to be able to compre hend that a man is abusinghis wife and family.But that also seems to be the case even when the abuses arewitnessed.
While I was separated from my husband, he learned I hadgone to church without him.
He demanded to know who I sat next to,who were the men there.I didn't answer, and he began pulling me into the car, twistingmy hair around his fists, pulling and pushing me back and forthover the 18-month-old sitting on the seat next to him who, ofcourse, began to scream.My head was slammed into the door frame, my leg bruised by mytrying to use it to brace myself.
In the blur of it all, I managedto get the baby out of the car and into the house before the abusersped off.People pass off domestic violence as the responsibility of thesystem.
But the justice system did not stop the assaults againstme.
This time a third assault conviction the abuser was allowedto avoid the court order to attend treatment.
I came to realizethere exists what I've come to call the chain of discretion.At any point in this chain the police officer, then theprosecutor, then the judge an abuser is likely to talk his wayout of it.Of all the women I've known whose abusers were arrested andprosecuted, I have never known a judge to impose a maximum sentence.Imagine trying to regain nor malcy while living in an unfamiliarplace in close quarters with people you don't know.
The intimaciesof life's private tragedies are lived out in full view of oneanother; children disoriented, the hourly tensions, the crying.This second shelter experience in 1995 offered the guarantee ofat least the basic necessities of life for 30 days that came andwent too soon.But there was no rest there.
My now-2-year-old had developed kidney disease.
Her fever was high and she was swollen head to toe.
Ihad to take her to the hospital immedi ately, after midnight andwith a groggy 8-year-old old in tow.
My old vehicle by now had twogears left, no air-conditioning, and over heated every seven mileslike clock work.It finally gave out on one of these runs to the clinic a dayI'll never forget.It was July, the height of the summer heat, with a feverish babyand a confused 8-year-old.
And when it broke down that day, Isuppose I did, too tears rolling down my face, unable to move,car horns blaring at me, drivers cursing at me, my children lookingscared I gave up in the middle of Alma School Road.With one I called the clinic to say the baby would be late.Another I gave to my 8-year-old, hoping it would make her feelbetter.
The other I used to call my ex.I spent hours on the phone or in transit to appointments,filling out form after form, existing in waiting rooms with hungry,restless chil dren.When my time was up at the shelter after 30 days, I had nowhereto go, no provisions, no working vehicle, no housing and $270 amonth on which to survive with two children.Society seemed to disregard that I didn't get to be a batteredwoman by choice.I felt awkward, undeserving and self-conscious among themarried, the housed, the fed, the insured, the secure.A friend offered to let me and the children stay with her for aweek.
When the week was up, she gave me enough money for a U-haultruck to put my few belongings in storage.Even the U-haul was used as a sleeping place for myself and thechildren for a couple of days.I went from friend to friend, each for a different night orcouple of days.
Even my mother-in-law re sponded to the need for mychildren and I to have food and rest.
I spent those days feelingweak and slept most of the time.I'd exhausted all other options.
All I could think of waswaiting for the housing subsidy I'd applied for to come through,and prayed it wouldn't be long.Only four days back with him, I was hit in the face while tryingto leave.
There was no phone in the house; he watched my everymove, monitored my pager and forbade me to associate with neighborsunless he was there.Our 2-year-old's condition was by then manageable and she wasrecov ering.
I was now pregnant again.
Thoughts of having a placeof my own kept me as sane as I could manage given the abuser'sdaily barrage of insults, demands and abuse.I spent nights sleeping with the children in the back of myvehicle, at times for nights in a row parked in a grocery storelot.The vehicle kept breaking down; my 8-year-old was unable to getto school, sometimes for a whole week.
I could see the hardshipweighing heavily on my children.
Their beautiful little eyes sodeserv ing to be full of life held only sad confusion.Hours of endless phone calls made from the corner pay phone, thesound of cars and trucks drowning out whatever helpful mes sage Imight be lucky enough to connect with.
I had to be on guard thatthe children didn't run into the street while my attention was on apen and paper.I spent those days on bus benches, building my life around thegoal of getting my daughter to school for her free lunch.Some days I stretched the bus fare by walking a few miles,saving enough to buy a jar of apple sauce, a little something forthe unborn child.Would I have energy left to walk the children to the food bankor the soup kitchen later?
Have change for the bus back, maybe?Even now, as I write, there is a surreal quality to it all, asif the only way I could cope was to allow myself to feel like ithappened to someone else.Today, two years after the loss of my son to stillbirth, I havesurvived to carry his spirit with me.
I know I will never be thesame.
I am a realist now.My senses are heightened of danger, of deception, of survival.And also heightened is my sense of self, my sense of being a childof God, and the true sanctity of life as God intended.I know that with continued safety provided to victims, freeingthem to speak out in ways that enlighten others, the experiences ofbattered women can and will be different.With increased awareness, the old myths will fall away, allowingus all a chance to better the quality of life for abuse survivorsand their fami lies, for those who care about them, and forourselves as a community and as a people children of God all ofus.
By JAYNE CUSTRED c. 1998, Houston Chronicle SAN FRANCISCO It was the putter that betrayed Jeff Maggert onSaturday during the third round of the U.S. Open.Three three-putts for bogeys on the treacherous Olympic ClubLake Course tract was the difference between a very acceptable2-over-par round of 72 and Maggert's disappointing 75.
It also wasthe difference between trailing leader Payne Stewart by three shotsor the six that Maggert will face going in today's final round.And still expect to win the U.S. Open Golf Championship.
Thatwas what was most discouraging of all.
Maggert has finished fourthin the Open in two of the last four years, and his back-to-back 69sin the first two rounds of this tournament had put him in a greatposition to finally get his first major victory.Maggert's day ended up even more frustrating because he startedout so well.
He opened with a birdie that helped him stay close toplaying partner Stewart, who made eagle on No.
1.
Even the bogey 4on No.
3 and the double-bogey 6 on No.
5 weren't too devastatingbecause Stewart had stumbled as well and there was plenty of golfto be played.Maggert did manage to sink a nice 12-footer for birdie on No.
16that got him back to 2 over for the tournament But the 17th holedealt him what might have been the fatal blow.
Maggert hit what hethought was a solid approach shot to the green, only to have theball catch the edge of the heavy greenside rough.
He recovered witha nice chip to within five feet but missed the par putt.That has been the case too often for Maggert, who has 11second-place finishes on tour.
He has a solid record in majorchampionships in 22 major appearances since 1992, he has finishedin the top 10 eight times.
But he still is seeking that bigvictory.Maggert came close last year.
He spent a good portion of thefinal round locked in a battle for the title with eventual championErnie Els, Tom Lehman and Colin Montgomerie.
But a couple of bogeysmidway through the day forced him to play aggressively.
And heclosed with back-to-back double bogeys and finished fourth.Unfortunately for Maggert, that is so true.
And it's unlikelyMaggert will be able to change that today.
But he still intends totry.But Maggert needs even more than that.
The Olympic Club is oneof the most difficult courses the pros have faced in recent years.Even Maggert was surprised at what the course threw at the golfersSaturday.Van Poppel, whom the Rangers purchased from Triple-A Oklahomabefore yesterday's game at Edison International Field of Anaheim,could not record an out during the third inning before beingremoved by Oates in the Angels' 8-3 victory.Perisho, whom the Rangers recalled Tuesday from Triple-AOklahoma, registered only seven outs during his start Tuesday in a9-7 loss to the Oakland Athletics at The Ballpark in Arlington.Van Poppel delivered few strikes during his 75-pitch appearance,but the first one he threw actually, his first pitch to Angelsleadoff hitter Darin Erstad glanced off the right-field foul poleafter leaving the first baseman's bat.Van Poppel, who surrendered five runs on four hits, issued fivewalks.
Consecutive third-inning walks to catcher Phil Nevin andleft fielder Orlando Palmeiro brought Oates from his perch in thedugout.The Rangers supported Van Poppel with three runs before theright-hander took the mound for his first major-league appearancesince Sept. 27, 1996.
Left fielder Rusty Greer delivered a one-out,run-scoring single, and a two-run home run from right fielder JuanGonzalez two pitches later gave the Rangers a 3-0 lead.Van Poppel, though, hit third baseman Dave Hollins with a 3-2pitch after Erstad's home run.
Center fielder Jim Edmonds, the nexthitter, lined a single through the middle on a 3-1 pitch.
Hollinseventually scored on a ground ball by designated hitter Tim Salmon,and Van Poppel then issued a four-pitch walk to right fielderGarret Anderson.
A two-out, run-scoring single by Palmeiro alsooccurred on a three-ball count.Angels right-hander Steve Sparks, whom the Angels purchasedMonday from Triple-A Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League, beatthe Rangers for the second time in six days after going 0-8 during11 minor-league starts this season.Sparks, who relies on his knuckleball, allowed only three hitsand three walks during the next 5 1/3 innings after a shaky firstframe.It remains to be seen whether Van Poppel will receive anopportunity to start Thursday's game at Arizona.WASHINGTON Lawyers for Monica Lewinsky have been told that shemust agree to plead guilty to some offense to reach an agreementwith Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel who is investigatingher relationship with President Clinton, said a person withknowledge of the investigation.Ms.
Lewinsky's new legal team is pressing Starr to grant herfull immunity from prosecution in exchange for her testimony, inwhich the former White House intern would acknowledge a sexualrelationship with the president, said the person, who insisted onanonymity.But in early talks with her lawyers, the person said, Starr hasinsisted that he would end the criminal investigation of Ms.Lewinsky only if she would agree to a guilty plea.
It was unclearif she would be required to plead guilty to a misdemeanor orfelony, and what sort of punishment might be imposed on her as aresult.Details about the negotiations between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky'snew legal team, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein, were first reportedon Saturday in The Washington Post.It was not immediately clear whether Cacheris and Stein,prominent Washington lawyers who were hired by Ms. Lewinsky'sfamily early this month, had been able to obtain a deal for theirclient that was any better than the one that had been offered byStarr to her previous lawyer, William Ginsburg.Any statement by Ms. Lewinsky that she had sex with thepresident would be a problem for Clinton, who has said in a sworndeposition that he had never had a sexual relationship with theformer intern.U.S.
News and World Report said on Saturday that one of itseditors had been allowed to listen to two hours of previouslyundisclosed recordings of Ms. Lewinsky and that she was infatuatedwith Clinton, although the tapes are ambiguous about whether therewas a physical relationship between the president and the formerWhite House intern.The magazine said that an associate editor, Elise Ackerman, wasallowed to listen to the tapes, which were made last October, underan agreement in which she was not allowed to make a copy, nor takenotes while she was listening.According to the report, the tapes were among those made byLinda Tripp, the former Pentagon employee who turned her tapes ofMs.
Lewinsky over to Starr, who is trying to determine if Clintonor others sought to coerce Ms. Lewinsky into lying.SAN FRANCISCO On one side of the equation is Payne Stewart,the wire-to-wire leader at the U.S. Open whose four-strokeadvantage represents the largest third-round margin at the eventsince 1970.Problem is, Stewart is also playing at the Olympic Club, whereno third-round leader has gone on to win the Open in three previousvisits to the course.Stewart, an SMU graduate who fashioned a third-round 70 toremain the only player under par through three rounds (3 under),said yesterday that he likes his chances to close out hiscompetitors for the championship.Stewart showed few signs of backing up during the third roundyesterday, opening with an eagle and building his lead to fourstrokes by the time he reached the sixth tee box.
Stewart, who ledby a single stroke after each of the first two rounds, did not letthe cushion dip below four stokes the rest of the way.He will carry that four-shot advantage into the final pairingwith Tom Lehman, who sat on the 54-hole lead at the past threeOpens but did not win any.
Also trailing Stewart by four strokes isBob Tway (1 over), with Nick Price and Lee Janzen, both at 2 over,the only other players within five strokes of the lead.Members of that five-player group have combined to win eightmajor championships, with each owning at least one major title andonly Price (three) having more than two.
Suffice to say, it is afar more elite list of pursuers that awaits Stewart today than thecast of characters who dropped off the pace yesterday, when PGATour journeymen Jeff Maggert (75) and Lee Porter (75) joined U.S.Amateur champ Matt Kuchar (76) as fallen contenders.Yet Stewart, winner of the 1991 Open and the 1989 PGAChampionship, insists that he is undaunted by the history ofOlympic, which has seen golfing giants Ben Hogan (1955), ArnoldPalmer (1966) and Tom Watson (1987) reeled in by less-heraldedplayers in come-from-behind fashion in the final round.Stewart took control of his destiny by reaching the green at thepar-5 first hole in two shots, then dropping a 15-foot eagle putt.In three rounds, Stewart is 4 under at No.
1 and 1 over for therest of the course.The bottom line, all agree, will depend on whether Stewart opensthe door for those in his rearview mirror.
Through three rounds, hehas three-putted one green.
His nine bogeys are the fewest of anyplayer on the leader board.He has the chance, on Father's Day, to finish a quest thatstarted with his late father, Bill, in the 1955 Open at Olympic.Bill Stewart, a club pro from Springfield, Mo., missed the cut inthat event by shooting 83-88.
His son, Payne, has a chance to winon the same course 43 years later.Stewart reflected yesterday on what advice his father would havegiven him heading into the final round.At the Antiquorum auction of important timepieces in midtownManhattan, the answer was a record-breaking $1.1 million, for ayellow gold Patek Philippe wristwatch with perpetual calendar andmoon phases.
Only three of its kind were made.
It was believed tobe the highest price ever paid for a watch in the United States.The previous record was $786,000, for a Patek Philippe sold byChristie's in 1996.The watch sold on Saturday, to an unnamed American collector,was among a dazzling inventory that included a Patek Philippewristwatch that had belonged to the jazz great Duke Ellington.Ellington bought his waterproof watch, yellow gold with a roundbutton split-second chronograph, in Geneva on July 28, 1948.
Anunnamed German collector bought it on Saturday for $673,500.
Itsvalue, prior to the auction, had been estimated at $150,000 to$180,000.The auction was the second held this year in New York City byAntiquorum, an auction house based in Geneva that sells finetimepieces around the world, and it comes at a time when luxurywatch sales are booming.
Manhattan dealers report brisk sales ofnew watches in the $25,000 to $75,000 range.But unlike the young tycoons snapping up Rolexes, Breguets, andnewer Patek Philippes, the buyers on Saturday were keen-eyedcollectors, aficionados of horology, the 500-year-old artfulscience of building devices that measure time.Primarily, they are motivated by two things: quality and rarity,said Osvaldo Patrizzi, the chairman of Antiquorum.There were many famous brand names on the auction block,including Rolex and Movado, but those made by Patek Philippe,founded in Switzerland in 1839 and known for its sophisticatedworkmanship, attracted the most attention.The same German collector who bought the Ellington watch alsobought a Patek Philippe World Time wristwatch, in pink gold withfancy hands and a revolving ring dial bearing the names of 41cities, for $662,500.
Total sales at the auction were $5.55million.Here is a list of N.Y. Times columnist items that moved onSaturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of NATIONAL stories and general ADVISORIES thatmoved on Saturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of WASHINGTON stories that moved on Saturday,June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of INTERNATIONAL stories that moved onSaturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of FINANCIAL stories that moved on Saturday,June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved onSaturday, June 20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of SPORTS stories that moved on Saturday, June20, on The N.Y. Times News Service.Here is a list of LIFESTYLE stories that moved on Saturday,June 20, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day.
Includedis story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), prioritycode and category code.SAN FRANCISCO You've been there before, they tell him.
Andthat's supposed to make Tom Lehman feel better.Like being tied to the tracks in front of a moving locomotive isalways much easier the second time around.
Or standing before afiring squad.
Or having root canal without Novocain.This will be the fourth consecutive year that Lehman has teedoff in the final pairing of the U.S. Open, which is the golfequivalent of going over Niagara Falls in a barrel.
All you'retrying to do is make it in one piece.You know the sad history, you know that the last three tripshave wound up with him busted on the rocks and you figure that thenight before they strap him to the rack and start the torture allover again, Lehman would either be climbing walls or one of themany cypress trees that help make the Lake Course at the OlympicClub a tight, tilted, twisted mind-trip.If it had to be a Disney flick, you might think somethingstarring Goofy would have been more appropriate, since that's whatblowing three consecutive chances to win the Open could makeanyone.But Lehman doesn't look like a guy who has stayed up nightsmuttering to himself in the dark, replaying the videotapes andre-living the misery.
And there is plenty of that.In 1995, he entered the final round at Shinnecock Hills tied forthe lead with Greg Norman but faded to finish third as Corey Pavinwon the title.In 1996, Lehman held the 54-hole lead and played the last roundas a head-to-head duel with his buddy-on-tour Steve Jones.
The twodevout Christians exchanged inspirational words throughout theround, but it was Jones who was lifted to the win at Oakland Hills.Last year, the site was the Congressional Country Club and thestory was the same on the last day.
Lehman led the field going inbut splashed his second shot on No.
17, taking himself out ofcontention as Ernie Els claimed the championship.Now he's back, like Bill Murray in Groundhog Day and Sonny andCher are singing I Got You Babe in the background.
But this timethere's a twist.While Lehman will be playing in the final twosome, this time heand Bob Tway are leading the hunt behind Payne Stewart's four-shotlead.When you're the leader, all eyes are on you.
When you're theleader at the U.S. Open and everybody is saying that all you haveto do to win the thing is hit the fairways and play solid golf,those fairways start to look about as wide as a ruler and the onlything solid is the weight on your back.But for a warm, pleasant, surprising Saturday afternoon in theBay Area, when the only problem was a devilish breeze that made thesloping fairways even harder to hold, Lehman pulled himself backtogether after a second-round 75 with a 2-under-par 68 that was thebest score of the day.
He used good middle irons to set himself upfor three birdies on the first three holes and then bogeyed thenext three.
He chipped in from 15 feet on No.
14 for a birdie andthen hit a wedge to within six feet and birdied No.
18.Though with a slightly different perspective as the chaser, thisbrings him to this familiar position on the last day, trying toshake off a reputation as a guy who can't handle the big-timepressure.
Which is certainly an odd tag for a player with four PGATour victories and who won the British Open in 1996.So the question is whether it's fun or torture being incontention on the last day of the U.S. Open.SAN FRANCISCO For all the reasons Payne Stewart is not onlyleading the 98th US Open but also is the only golfer under par,this may be the most telling: There have been 294 double bogeysthrough three rounds, but none by Stewart.Swirling winds and bright sun that firmed the fairways so thatthe slightest miss caused shots to roll off them and into theever-deepening rough have humbled all who have teed it up at TheOlympic Club; all, that is, except Stewart.So Stewart is the improbable leader, firing a par 70 Saturdaythat kept him in the same position at day's end as at day'sbeginning 3 under par.
Virtually all other golfers lost ground toStewart as he has a four-stroke lead over Tom Lehman (68 211) andBob Tway (73).
His four-shot lead is the largest entering the finalround of the Open since Tony Jacklin also led by four in 1970.Improbable leader?
Well, Stewart may have won the Open in 1991at Hazeltine outside Minneapolis, but he has won only one othertourney in the US in the eight years since (the 1995 Shell HoustonOpen, beating Scott Hoch in a playoff).
Stewart may have won$8,465,062 in his career and may be the seventh-leading all-timemoney winner, but tour wins have been scant, and few since he beatScott Simpson in a playoff to take his second major.
He won the1989 PGA Championship.One of the few golfers to make up ground on Stewart was TomLehman, one of only three golfers to break par Saturday.
Lehman, ofcourse, has been extremely close to winning the last three Opens third in 1995, second in 1996, and tied for the lead atCongressional last year when his shot found the water on the 17thhole on the final day and he finished third.Among the many golfers who took a free fall Saturday, one of themost painful was by amateur Matt Kuchar, who will turn 20 Sunday.Kuchar was alone in second place, 1 over par, when he teed off onthe 14th hole, but he proceeded to three-putt the hole, the firstof four straight bogeys, which dropped him off the leaderboard.Meanwhile, Brad Faxon of Barrington, R.I., to whom the Opennever has been kind, was in ideal position Saturday to make hisfirst mark on an Open leaderboard as he started the day at 1 over,four shots behind Stewart.
Faxon needed only to play a consistentround of near-par golf to be in the thick of the battle.Deer either smacked a pitch far over the outfield wall or struckout mightily, the buttons on his shirt nearly bursting on everyswing.Makes you wonder how the 6-foot-4, 245-pound Deer will fare inhis post-baseball career, which at the moment, is drag racing.Deer either will blow the doors off a rival or get his 1955Chevy BelAir off the starting line too early and red light, causingan immediate disqualification.When Deer retired, he renewed that love and purchased a 1967Chevy Camaro, which he raced in the National Hot Rod Association'ssuper street sportsman category.Later, he talked his parents into moving from California toMesa, where Deer has lived for several years, and persuaded his dadto resume his own drag racing career.Bob Deer now is driving the Camaro and Rob recently purchased a1955 Chevy BelAir and competes in super gas.Bob Deer, who still works full time at Falcon Field, will travelwith his son next month to Sonoma, Calif., and compete in anational event at Sears Point Raceway.
Primarily, however, theelder Deer's plans are to compete only locally at Speedworld,Firebird International Raceway Park or Southwestern InternationalRaceway in Tucson.ST.
PETERSBURG, Fla. Life was anything but a beach Saturdaynight for the fun-in-the-sun Red Sox, who finally fell off the wavethey've been riding, 8-5, to the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays,who treated Bret Saberhagen's changeup like they were hitting off atee.The Red Sox lost not only the game, ending a four-game winningstreak before a crowd of 41,169 in Tropicana Field, but also theargument, as manager Jimy Williams was ejected despite having whatappeared to be a legitimate (sounds like beach).Williams was tossed for the second time in 17 days, giving himone more ejection than he had all of last season, after plateumpire Rich Garcia reversed his call in the fifth inning and ruledthat Quinton McCracken had been hit by a Saberhagen pitch with twoDevil Rays already on base.All three baserunners scored after Dave Martinez scorched atwo-run double off Saberhagen, who has lost his last two startsafter winning three in a row, and Wade Boggs followed with asacrifice fly off rookie Brian Barkley.Garcia changed his mind after consulting third-base umpire JohnHirschbeck at the request of Greg Riddoch, the Devil Rays'third-base coach, who told Garcia that he heard the pitch hitMcCracken.Out of the Red Sox dugout popped Williams, who sandwichedhimself between Garcia and Hirschbeck while posing, in languagethat became increasingly pungent the longer the argument went on,this question: How could Hirschbeck, standing 120 feet away, be ina better position than plate umpire Garcia to hear a ball strikinga batsman?Down, 6-1, to the Devil Rays, the Red Sox drew to within a runon Vaughn's 21st home run and Lou Merloni's RBI single in thesixth, and two hits and a two-run error committed by Tampa Baysecond baseman Miguel Cairo on Vaughn's hard shot in the seventh.But the Devil Rays, losers of their first four meetings againstthe Red Sox, rallied for two runs in the bottom of the inningagainst Barkley and Jim Corsi, who gave up a two-run ground singleto catcher John Flaherty, fresh off the disabled list.The loss, which dropped Saberhagen's record to 8-5, was only thethird in the Sox' last dozen games.
Saberhagen bolted from theclubhouse afterward, not wishing to discuss damage wreaked byCairo's triple and Kevin Stocker's sacrifice fly in the second,Paul Sorrento's two-run homer in the fourth, and Martinez's two-rundagger in the fifth.Better yet, he should be sent home immediately.
He should thenbe dispatched to Cambridge, where he can take a look at a differenttype of athlete.
He might come away better equipped to deal withhis own life issues.This is not to imply that the Special Olympics are any kind ofsomber experience.
Au contraire.
The Massachusetts SpecialOlympics, which are being held this weekend at MIT, happens to beone of the great uplifting experiences anyone can have.
I mean, ifit's smiling faces you want to see, the Special Olympics is theplace to see them.It's a variation of the famed Grantland Rice idea that theimportant thing is how you played the game.
In this case, theimportant thing is that you played the game.
For many of theathletes, participation truly is enough to make them happy.You can meet some extraordinary people.
Take Michael McAdams,for example.
He has been participating in Special Olympiccompetitions since 1987.
He was there to run in both the 100 metersand 400 meters Saturday, but during his time he has earned medalsin basketball, soccer, volleyball, the long jump, and shot put.When most of us think of the Special Olympics, we tend toconjure up a picture of people running, jumping, or throwing anobject.
Track and field is the glamour sport of the event, nodoubt.
But there is a lot more going on right now than track andfield.I got to see most of a doubles match.
Dan Widrich and RichMiller prevailed over David Broden and Meg Schilling in a matchthat included some nice rallies and some particularly agileretrieves by Miller, a Special Olympics veteran who admitted tobeing a somewhat reluctant participant since he considers himselfmore of a coach than an athlete these days.The tennis players are particularly excited because four of themwill be nominated to participate in the 1999 World Games, whichwill be held next summer in North Carolina.
But most of theparticipants don't need that carrot in order to enjoy themselveshere.With that, the skies opened up a bit and it seemed to make senseto get in out of the rain.
That took me inside the hockey rink, andinto the roller skating competition.And speaking of smiles, Peter Richards had a grin as wide as afootball field every time he passed in front of his family when heskated around the floor.
He was pretty psyched when he got hissilver medal, too.Vicki Movsessian was on hand to give out medals, and if the namesounds familiar, it's because she was a member of the goldmedal-winning women's hockey team in Nagano.I know this much: There is no way you can put a price tag on oneof those smiles.SAN FRANCISCO Ho hum, another U.S. Open, another final-day,final-group pairing.
For Tom Lehman it's getting to be aspredictable as the contents of all those long, wrapped, rectangularboxes that so many dear old dads will be tearing open today.A tie for Father's Day?
If you're Lehman, you're thinking:Please, no, not another one like the tie for second in 1996.
And,for that matter, no more solo third-place finishes, either, like in1995 and 1997.Lehman has gone into the final round of the U.S. Open with thelead each of the last three years and lost.
He has seen one of thefour greatest gifts in professional golf slip through his fingers.The title eluded him by three shots in 1995, by one shot in 1996and by two shots last year.The snakebit 1996 British Open champion heads into today's finalround tied for second with Bob Tway after equaling the low score ofthe third round Saturday with a 2-under-par 68.This time the pole position and all the pressure belong toLehman's playing partner Payne Stewart.
He opened Saturday with aneagle-3, closed it with three straight pars and in between tookwhatever the Olympic Club's stingy Lake Course would give him totack on a 70 to his earlier rounds of 66 and 71.
His 54-hole totalof 207 is four better than Lehman and Tway, who shot a 73.Nick Price followed a second-round 68 with a 71 to stand tiedfor fourth with Lee Janzen (73).
It made for some leaderboard asall four of the players directly behind Stewart Lehman, Tway,Price and Janzen have won a major.Then there's Jim Furyk, who has come oh-so-close to winning hisfirst Grand Slam title, finishing no worse than sixth in the pastfour majors.
He carded a 68, same as Lehman, and is eight shotsback, at 215.Like Lehman, Stewart is treading in familiar territory.
He ledafter three rounds of the 1991 U.S. Open at Hazeltine National GolfClub in Lehman's home state of Minnesota.
The experience ended wellfor Stewart, albeit belatedly, as he defeated Scott Simpson in aMonday playoff.Since lassoing his first-and-only major, Stewart, 41, has wononly once on the PGA Tour (the 1995 Houston Open).
He is the firstto admit his priorities have changed over the past few years, withfamily supplanting golf as his abiding passion.He has trimmed his tournament schedule to make time for his twochildren, Chelsea, 12, and Aaron, 9.
Stewart wants to be there forthem, as much as he can, just as his late father was for him.Phil Stewart was a good enough golfer to compete as an amateurin the 1955 U.S. Open on the same Olympic Club course Stewart has,to this point, hog-tied.
The elder Stewart didn't fare nearly aswell, shooting rounds of 83 and 88 to miss the cut.Of course, as Bee Stewart felt compelled to point out to her sonSaturday, the rough 43 years ago was knee-high, instead of ankledeep.
Given that Stewart missed seven of 14 fairways Saturday, heshould give thanks for small blessings.While he is at it, Stewart should kiss his putter; aside fromthe most-replayed putt of the tournament (his 3-putt on thediabolical 18th Friday), Stewart has been able to conquer all thegreens in two strokes or less.He vowed to play the course the same way today as he has allweek.
He'll leave the prevent defense to his beloved Dallas Cowboysand aim for the flag, but only when there's a clear opening.
Thatwas the case on No.
1 when he hit a driver off the tee, a 5-ironsecond shot to 20 feet and made the putt.Lehman has beat himself up over his near misses some, but notmuch.
He, more than most, has a firm grasp of what's reallyimportant, which is why he could be found after his round on thepractice range, stopping between swings to watch his 8-year-olddaughter Rachael hit golf balls with his 5-iron.ANAHEIM In the posh new visitors' clubhouse at Edison Field, aside door leads to a well-appointed gym.
In there, among otherfitness equipment, is a bench-press rack with 45-pound disks, acurling bar, some enormous dumbbells and the requisite mirrorcovering an entire wall.
(For some strange reason, all of this lies just beyond one tableladen with doughnuts and another heaped with a decadent array ofcandy.
)When the Texas Rangers hit town this weekend, several playerspuffed and sweated in the room in the mid-afternoon, but JuanGonzalez, breaking from one-time routine, wouldn't step near it.
Heremained at his locker, lifting nothing more than the corners ofhis mouth.Texas has played 73 games this season and Gonzalez has appearedin each and every one of them, along the way rifling bullets to allfields and driving in 88 runs, a major-league lead that even MarkMcGwire can't touch.
If Gonzalez can maintain that pace for 158games this year, he would break a major-league RBI record that hasstood for 68 years since Hack Wilson of the Chicago Cubs drove in190 in 1930.In the past, any such bid was always foiled by a lengthy absenceto injury.
Gonzalez has not reached the 135-game mark in any of hislast four seasons.
Why, even when he won the American League MostValuable Player award in 1996 he missed 28 games because of injury which is an indication of just how thoroughly he can savagepitching when he is sound.The maladies were the type that screamed out for increasedflexibility torn quadriceps, herniated disk in his back, strainedgroin, torn cartilage in his knee, torn ligament in his thumb.Don't assume, however, that Gonzalez now spends his spare timevisiting one of those snack tables in the clubhouse.Just as much work as before, but with a vastly differentemphasis: stretching and light weights.McGwire attracts hordes when he takes batting practice, becausehis hitting stroke is the type that takes the breath away deadpull, uppercut, launching balls to the deepest reaches of theleft-field seats.When Gonzalez stepped into the cage before a game with theAngels on Friday afternoon, it generated barely a ripple ofexcitement.
Here's why: His first 17 cuts produced hits up themiddle or to right field, with only one ball carrying the wall.
Lowliners jumped off his bat and threatened to leave dents in theright-center wall.A couple of hours later, on a low-and-away fastball that theAngels' Chuck Finley had appeared to spot perfectly, Gonzalezlashed a double into the right-center gap that cleared the bases.By all accounts, the maturity is clearly evident in this formermercurial and reckless young man.
Being divorced three times by age28 is sure to weather anyone.The words reflect the brimming optimism of a guy who has gonenearly three months in a rigorous sport without missing a day'swork.LOS ANGELES My father is a formidable figure, with a boomingvoice and a personality that eclipses his 6-foot-2 frame.
Peoplewho meet him assume he once ran interference for a hotshot tailbackat some prestigious university.
But World War II shot down myfather's college plans and his athletic career.That's not why my dad went to extraordinary ends to spring me,his firstborn, for gains so great they're still being measured.
Hewasn't living vicariously through my athletic endeavors, justevening a score.His father had been largely indifferent to his sportingpursuits.
His disinterest was a sore on my father's childhood thatfestered and left him scarred well into adulthood.
He vowed earlyon his children would grow up knowing unequivocally that he cared.So in the fall of 1972, when I announced swimming looked like alot of fun after watching Mark Spitz race to seven gold medals atthe Munich Olympics, my father moved almost as swiftly as Spitzhad.Little did he know, as he set out the next day for the SantaClara Swim Club, the life he was about to enrich (other than hischild's) was his own.The truth was, I was laughably short and scrawny.
But I had myfather's drive and both my parents' unflagging support and inthe first year I went from being a novice to a member of anage-group relay team that was ranked No.
1 in the country.I would swim competitively for 11 more years and I can count onone hand the number of swim meets my father missed until I movedaway to college.
Win or lose, he was always there for me at the endof the race, with a big hug (and, on occasion, a handkerchief towipe away the tears).My pursuit of excellence would cost my father hundreds ofSaturday golf games, countless fishing trips and one job promotion(it entailed a move across the country that my father feared woulddisrupt my progress in the pool).But what he gained was priceless: A bond with his daughterthat's the envy of all his golf-playing, pleasure-seeking,corporate ladder-climbing cronies.Our relationship is the envy of my friends, too, many of whomgrew up with fathers who stayed well in the periphery of theirdaily lives (indeed, there were many high school meets where minewas the only father in the seats).
Once they got over beingintimidated by the mere sight and sound of my father, my friendssoaked up his attention like dry skin does lotion.I, of course, basked in my father's company.
Of all the thingswe did together, I enjoyed our car rides the most.
We spent hoursin the automobile, driving to and from swimming pools all over thestate.We passed the time talking about everything under the sun.
Nosubject was too trivial or terrible to broach.
Our rapport was suchthat I trusted my father's judgment explicitly.That's why I didn't argue when he told me on the way home fromswim practice one night that it was time to look for a new club.
Iwas 16 then and much older when I found out one of my coaches thatnight had told my father I could go a long way with a little helpfrom certain chemicals.When it came time to visiting colleges, it seemed perfectlynatural that my father ride shotgun.
The night he left me in thecare of some swimmers at USC, my dad walked to a nearby restaurantto grab a bite to eat.
As he was walking back to his hotel, astranger appeared out of nowhere and blocked his path.And yet he let me go, to find my own way, as he knew even themost loving father must.I was out of sight but never out of his mind.
My first year incollege, my father flew to L.A. to surprise me at our conferenceswim meet at East L.A. College.
The only problem was, he drove toWest L.A. College by mistake.
Somehow he managed to find his way tothe right pool in time to catch my big race.Devotion, thy name is Dad.
For mine and every other one outthere like him, this day's for you.Same goes for their rivals, though, who lost their opener toYugoslavia and figure they'll have little hope against the Germans.If the political pressure from home is greater on Iran, thesporting pressure is greater on the US, which came herelegitimately hoping to make the second round, then played like awedamateurs for the first half of a 2-0 loss to the Germans.So the US is determined to attack the Iranians from the openingwhistle, create multiple scoring chances, and knock in at least acouple of goals.
That hasn't happened often this year, but theYanks concede that it had better happen Sunday.The Yanks were imposed upon by the Germans, giving up a goal inthe ninth minute and not managing a shot on goal until the 30th.Not this time, vows their coach, who said his squad will be runningand banging and risking from the go.Even so, the Americans concede that beating Iran won't be easy,even though the Iranians needed a near-miracle to qualify.
Theyknow Iran will come in pumped to the skies by the idea of knockingoff Uncle Sam.
They remember that Iran came from two goals downwith 14 minutes left to tie Australia on the road to get here.
Andthey've seen the videos of Iran's 1-0 loss to Yugoslavia, when thegoal came on a free kick 18 minutes from time.Iran's top three stars strikers Ali Daei and Khodadad Aziziand midfielder Karim Bagheri all play for clubs in Germany'sBundesliga.
They supply the punch in Talebi's counterattacking3-5-2 system, which allows them to free-lance.If the Americans are too careless going forward, the Iranianswill sting them on the counter.
But after scoring in only one ofits last four matches, the US can't afford to worry about gettingcaught upfield.
Timidity in the World Cup gets you an early tickethome.Iran hasn't played in the Cup since 1978 and doesn't expect towin a match here.
The Americans, who reached the second round lasttime, have beaten the Brazilians this year.
The Iranians, who areon their fourth coach since November, lost, 7-1, to AS Roma lastmonth.If the Americans defeat Iran by two goals and Germany does thesame to Yugoslavia, the US can advance by tying the Yugoslavs inNantes on Thursday.
But the goal-differential arithmetic can waitSAN FRANCISCO This time, Tom Lehman does not have to carry theburden of the lead into the final round of the U.S. Open.
Thatweight belongs to Payne Stewart.Ben Hogan, Arnold Palmer and Tom Watson took the lead into thefinal round in 1955, '66 and '87, respectively.
No one came outalive.
Palmer blew a 7-shot lead over the last nine holes, then an18-hole playoff to Billy Casper the next day.But Stewart has a bit of history working for him, too.
His4-shot lead is the largest since Tony Jacklin led the 1970 Open atHazeltine near Minneapolis.
And Jacklin ended up winning by 7shots.Without question, Stewart said, he would sooner be out frontthan trying to catch up.
History doesn't bother him one bit.Saturday was a tough day to play golf, as only three of theremaining 60 players broke par.
When the last ball had floatedthrough the ocean breeze and quit rolling on the hard, tightfairways, only Stewart was under par for 54 holes.Stewart, who has only one victory since his '91 Open win (1995Houston Open), got his day off to a fast start, running in an eagleat the first hole from 18 feet.
There also was a spectacular 7-ironat No.
8 that settled within tap-in range for another birdie.
Eventhough he made three bogeys, there were big saves at the 17th and18th holes.Lehman's 68 tied him for the low round of the day, and it beganalmost as incredibly, as he ran in three straight birdies.
Too badfor him they were followed by three straight bogeys.Tway hung on all day, absorbing three bogeys and a double.
Buthe managed to sink a 3-foot birdie at the 18th for a 73 that kepthim within striking distance.Two other big hitters, Nick Price (71) and Lee Janzen (73), whoedged Stewart in the 1993 Open at Baltusrol, also were right there.But it might be a reach for Steve Stricker (69) and Jeff Maggert(75), who trailed by 6 strokes.Pre-tournament favorites Tiger Woods (71, 7 over), David Duval(75, 8 over) and defending champ Ernie Els (75, 10 over) are out ofthe chase.
Along with Casey Martin (74, 9 over), they have earlytee times today.Maybe it will be the difference for Lehman, who has finishedthird, second and third the past three years while waiting to playlate in the day in the Eastern time zone in New York (Shinnecock),Michigan (Oakland Hills) and Washington, D.C. (Congressional).
SAN FRANCISCO It won't be the knickers.
It won't be the cart.It won't be the expletives directed at pin placement or a bunch ofwhiny golfers commiserating about the course.
The enduring symbolof the U.S. Open and maybe the entire season will be the smile.It started in Georgia, bigger than Mark O'Meara's green jacket.It has stretched all the way to California, brighter than PayneStewart's wardrobe.
And it belongs to an amateur who is bafflingexperts with his poise, melting galleries with his grin.The look of a teen who just scored a fake ID and front-rowtickets for Megadeth.Matt Kuchar turns 20 today, and already he is teaching hispeers.
If everyone could loosen up and enjoy himself like this kid,well, golf wouldn't desperately need a visit from the fun police.So the fantasy exploded Saturday afternoon, a string of bogeysthat spiked Kuchar's chances of becoming the first amateur in 65years to win the Open.
Doesn't matter because through it all, thesmile remained.
It was contagious and emerged after every shot.
Andwhen he approached the 18th green, the gallery gave him a standingovation.Sure, they understood the magnitude of it all.
Kuchar, who justfinished his sophomore year at Georgia Tech, isn't even the bestplayer on his college team.
He didn't win an NCAA championship.
Hedidn't even win the conference tournament.Yet in two of golf's headline events, Kuchar has beenunflappable.
He shot even par at the Masters, tying for 21st place,walking away from $40,000 because of his amateur status.
And after50 holes at the Open, Kuchar was in third place, taming a coursethat sent most of the field searching for liquid aspirin.For two days, Kuchar was paired with the Ernie Els and JustinLeonard, defending champions from the U.S. and British Open.
After36 holes, he flattened both by a combined 13 strokes.Even more solid: In the four professional tournaments Kuchar hasentered, his worst round is 76.
It happened at Augusta, whenhowling winds descended upon the second round.
It happenedSaturday, when the boa constrictor known as The Olympic Clubfinally put the squeeze on Kuchar.By golfing standards, the Kuchars might be having too much fun,the kid stealing the show, the father/caddie pumping his fistsafter every good shot.
On Friday, Leonard was asked whether thehistrionics emoting from the elder Kuchar were a bit over the top.Now that final exams are over, Kuchar has a tough decision tomake.
He doesn't want to shut the door on college, but he isthriving on the allure of big-time golf.
He must decide whether toturn pro, cashing in his innocence for prize money.
And somewhere,a toothpaste company has discovered the perfect spokesman.But all of that can wait.
For now, he has one more day in thesun, one more day to bask in a love affair that has turned hispeers a shade of green and the golfing world on its ear.They were left in the rain at Coors Field, hoping to squeezeanother victory out of their final at-bat and wondering if they canafford to lose anyone else.When Eric Karros and Raul Mondesi failed to score the tying runfrom second in the ninth, the Dodgers' had their answer.
Their 7-6loss to the Colorado Rockies was coupled with news that BobbyBonilla was headed to the disabled list with a viral infection thatmight be the reason he has played so poorly since his arriving lastmonth.A victory on the night that first-place San Diego lost for thefirst time in 12 games would have been the Dodgers' third straightand a little bright spot as Martinez tries to decide whether tohave shoulder surgery.Reyes allowed a three-run homer to Ellis Burks in the fourth andwas lucky it wasn't worse.
Mondesi took a three-run shot away fromVinny Castilla in the first inning with a leaping catch at thewall.But Reyes' erratic performance put pressure on the young Dodgerslineup that included Paul Konerko at third, Roger Cedeno in leftand Juan Castro at second.Cedeno had two hits and an RBI, and Castro scored twice.
ButKonerko went 0 for 4.
Overall, the team had six players on theroster with a year or less major-league experience.The victory went to former Dodgers left-hander Mike Munoz (1-0),the second of five Rockies relievers to pitch after starter JohnThomson was scratched because of a blister on his right middlefinger.The Dodgers actually scored first when Cedeno's third-inningsingle scored Castro.
But Burks came back in the fourth with a433-foot drive deep into the left-field bleachers for his 13thhomer.Jim Bruske came on and got buried.
The worst of it was an RBIsingle by Burks, a run-scoring double by Greg Colbrunn and atwo-run single by Mike Lansing.The Dodgers cut the lead to 7-5 in the seventh with a three-rundouble by Karros, who has two homers and nine RBI in the series.One of the runners was rookie Matt Luke, who had a pinch single offCurtis Leskanic in his first at-bat since rejoining the clubearlier in the day.Luke played 33 games for the Dodgers before being designated forassignment May 29.
He was claimed by Cleveland and had two pinchat-bats before being designated again June 9.The Rockies went into the ninth with right-hander Jerry DiPoto,who allowed a game-winning homer to Karros the night before.DiPoto allowed an RBI double to Gary Sheffield and Dave Vereswas brought in to face Karros with the tying run at second.Karros struck out on a 1-2 off-speed pitch, leaving the game toMondesi, who still is a little hobbled by the left ankle hesprained in San Diego.Jones, seeking to become the first woman in 50 years to win the100, 200 and long jump in the USA Track and Field Championships,can complete the triple with a triumph today in the 200 meters.Jones took a big step toward the historic triple Saturday nightat Tad Gormley Stadium, winning the 100 meters in 10.72 seconds andthe long jump with a wind-aided 23 feet, 8 inches.
The nine-timestate champion from Thousand Oaks High also won her 200 semifinalin 22.46 seconds for the top qualifying mark for the final.So is John Godina, who became the first man to win the shot putand discus in 43 years despite competing with torn cartilage in hisright shoulder.
Godina, who won the discus late Friday night forhis second consecutive national title, was never challenged in hisquest for his first national shot-put title.Godina, the two-time world shot-put champion, won with a put of71-2}.
The former UCLA standout's six efforts were 68-10 or betterto outdistance runner-up C.J.
Hunter (68-4).Jones started her journey toward the historic triple with avictory in the 100.
Jones got off to a slow start, but her mark wasonly a hundredth off her world-leading 10.71 that she ran in Fridaynight's semifinals.Saturday's mark of 10.72 ranks as the seventh-fastest, trailingonly four marks by Florence Griffith-Joyner, the world recordholder at 10.49, and Jones' two times of 10.71 run this season.In Saturday's 100 final, Inger Miller and Chryste Gaines had theedge on Jones out of the blocks.
Jones, however, assumed command bythe 30-meter mark en route to a comfortable victory.
Gaines wassecond in 10.89 to become the ninth-fastest American.
Miller,hampered by tendinitis in her knee, was third in 11.12 and TorriEdwards of USC was fourth in 11.20.Jones took only two of her six attempts in the long jump,posting her winning leap of 23-8 on her first jump and fouling onthe second before heading off to run in the 200 semifinals.
Jones,the world-leader at 23-11}, still won by more than a foot overShana Williams and Dawn Burrell, who were second and third withidentical marks of 22-7.Heat and humidity took its toll on 1997 world champion MauriceGreene and Dennis Mitchell, who scratched from the 100 because ofcramps.Tim Harden, aided by a gust of 4.9 meters per second, won in9.88 with Brian Lewis second in 9.98.UCLA sophomore Seilala Sua, the two time NCAA champion,unleashed an effort of 204-2 on her sixth and final attempt to winthe women's discus.Regina Jacobs, the seven-time national 1,500-meter champion, wonher first 5,000 title in 15:32.31.
Jacobs, a 1981 graduate of theArgyll Academy, now known as Campbell Hall, pulled away from LibbieHickman in the final quarter to win by more than eight seconds.Mike Bibby has spent most of his life listening to guys instriped shirts, knowing they always had the final word.
But thiswas different.
This striped shirt was working at a Foot Locker in alocal mall and was bragging to some of Bibby's friends that hecould take Bibby in a game of one-on-one.Bibby declined, figuring he had nothing to prove.
But he findsit a little humorous, and irritating, that everyone seems to be aMike Bibby expert these days.It is the curse of the young and the talented that people lookintently for wrinkles on faces that are barely past the Clearasilstage.It is not familiar territory for Bibby, who has been a phenomsince his early teens, but it's not unexpected, either.
The LosAngeles Clippers are expected to pick Bibby with the firstselection in Wednesday's NBA draft, so the scrutiny of Bibby'sskills is inevitable.The son of Henry Bibby, the former UCLA and NBA point guard,Mike Bibby always has seemed destined for greatness.
At ShadowMountain High School, he set state records for scoring, and theMatadors won the state championship his senior season.In his first game at Arizona, he scored 22 points against NorthCarolina.
He helped the Wildcats to a national championship in hisfreshman season.
He was a first-team All-American as a sophomore.His decision to leave college two years early for the NBA lookswise because even if the Clippers don't take him, he probably willbe among the top five picks.Now, however, there are doubts.
Is Bibby ready to play in theNBA?
Can he battle Gary Payton, John Stockton and Jason Kidd andstill help turn around one of the league's worst franchises?
Can hehandle the constant questions that will come about his estrangedfather, now basketball coach at Southern California, which plays inthe same building as the Clippers, the Los Angeles Sports Arena?They are legitimate questions to ask of a kid who became afather at 19, who has few interests outside of basketball, family,playing video games and going to the mall.Others wonder.
Point guard is probably the toughest position toplay in the NBA, particularly for a rookie who is drafted by a badteam.Most analysts regard this as a weak draft.
Players who are nowconsidered to be top seven picks, including Bibby, would be pickedseventh to 15th in normal years, Babcock said.
The 6-foot-2,194-pound Bibby is regarded as the best point guard in the draft.
But hedoesn't have much competition for that honor.Dick Percudani, Suns director of college scouting, has seenBibby play several times over the past two years, and he questionswhether Bibby will be an impact player in the NBA.The question is one of value.
The Clippers desperately need helpin the backcourt, but would a big man such as Michael Olowokandi, a7-1 center from Pacific, be a better value?The Clippers aren't revealing much.
General Manager Elgin Bayloris impressed with Bibby and thought he looked good in a privateworkout for the team, but he hasn't committed to taking Bibby.Having the top pick is not always as easy as selecting Tim Duncan,as San Antonio did last year.When told of these comments, Bibby gave the appearance ofshrugging them off.
But his voice became edgy, his sentencesclipped.
He held his tongue, but it was clear he was seething.Haters?
Scouts voicing opinions hardly fall into that category.But Bibby isn't finished.
He said he's accustomed to what he seesas disrespect for his ability.He is not worried, he said, about competing with the Paytons,the Stocktons and the Kidds.
He is not worried about his ability torun a team, to make his teammates better, to handle the pressure.He thinks he'll reward the general manager who puts a basketball,and a team, in his hands.Those close to Bibby have no doubts that he will succeed in theNBA.
Members of the Arizona coaching staff said they never have hadanyone work harder.
From the day he set foot on campus, Bibby spentnearly every day working on his game.
Even after three-hourpractices, he and roommate Josh Pastner worked through variousshooting drills.After this season ended, Bibby and Pastner still awoke at 5 a.m.just so they could be the first ones in the gym.Royce Youree, a veteran high school and college coach, coachedBibby in a summer league a few years ago and agrees withRosborough.That's where Bibby is most uncomfortable.
At Arizona, he oftenslipped out after a game to avoid reporters.
And he has been knownto conduct interviews while never looking up from a magazine tomake eye contact with reporters.Still, he said he doesn't mind the attention, he said, unless itgets personal.
Since high school, he has been asked constantlyabout his father, with whom he has no relationship.
For the pastfew years, he has refused to answer questions about his dad.Mike Bibby has been criticized by some for fathering a child outof wedlock, which he thinks is unfair.
On the court, he canretaliate for perceived slights by making plays.
Off the court, hehas little power to fight the criticism, and that's somethingthat's difficult for a 20-year-old to accept.He and his girlfriend, whom he declines to name, are together,and Bibby spends considerable time with his son, Michael Dane, whowas born in December.He knows people behind his back joke that Bibby will fit inperfectly in the NBA, where many players have fathered children outof wedlock.
He has been lumped in with other athletes, such asLatrell Sprewell, as an example of today's spoiled athletes.Bibby and his mother are extremely close, but she doesn't pamperhim constantly.
Recently, a reporter had an interview scheduledwith Bibby, who seemed more interested in working out.
But hismother told him emphatically that he was going to do it.
And hedid.She also doesn't think her son deserves applause for acceptingthe responsibility of fatherhood and spending time with his son.Everyone close to Bibby raves about the job his mother did inraising him.
He is unfailingly polite to strangers and neverdeclined an autograph request at Arizona, where Wildcats playersare the most recognized people in town.Following Falk's advice, the Clippers are the only team Bibbyhas visited in the weeks preceding the draft.
Clippers officialsaren't saying much about their draft intentions and are rumored tobe interested in trading the pick.
There is also speculation theymight draft Olowokandi, especially if they fear losing center IsaacAustin through free agency.In that case, Bibby could drop a few spots.
He said it doesn'tmatter to him.
If it happens, then he'll have something to prove tothe Clippers, as well as to the guy at Foot Locker.LYON, France In simpler times, a demonstration was what adoor-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman offered to give the lady ofthe house.In Tehran, there would be dancing, singing, weeping.
Theexplosion of national pride might rival the scene that erupted inNovember after Iran, playing in Melbourne, Australia, qualified forthe World Cup for the first time in 20 years.
In a passionateoutpouring, 2 million citizens including 5,000 women who ignoredpolice instructions to stay home filled the streets.
Women rippedoff their government-mandated veils.
When the team returned home,Iranians welcomed them, packing 120,000-seat Azadi stadium.The U.S. team, of course, hopes to prevent a day (or days) ofrapturous glee.Few Iranian players appear to regard the American team as anemissary of the Great Satan.
Their coach, Jalal Talebi, spent 17years in the United States.
A kind, soft-spoken man, Talebisometimes answers even Persian questions in fluent English.
Hewould make an excellent ambassador.Most American players are too young to remember the hostagecrisis in Iran almost 20 years ago.
To a man, they repeat theit's-just-another-big-game quote, and downplay the politicalovertones.But this is isn't just the next game.
The world's most popularsporting event has given Iran a major place on an internationalstage for the first time since the revolution led by AyatollahKhomenei overthrew the Shah in 1979.Iranians have the opportunity to show themselves as sportsmenand fans, not as terrorists and religious fanatics, which is howthey are perceived in the West.Win, lose or honorable tie, U.S. players plan to shake handswith the Iranians afterward.
Several said they hope to exchangegifts.Seven years later, as the draft returns to upstate New York,another physical center with Lindros-like proportions has emergedas hockey's most coveted choice.In 58 games last season for Rimouski Oceananic in the Quebecjunior league, Lecavalier racked up 44 goals and 115 points alongwith 117 penalty minutes.
Central Scouting gave him grades of 10sin hockey sense and puck-handling, nine in competitiveness, andeights in skating, checking and physical play.Lesuk and the Coyotes would love to have him.
But Lecavalierwill be long gone by the time Phoenix makes its first pick with the14th overall selection.Unless the Coyotes make their third major trade in two weeks, ofcourse, and ship out yet another core player for the rights to theshining, can't-miss 18-year-old.
The team recently traded top-linecenter Craig Janney and popular enforcer Jim McKenzie.
But don'tcount on seeing Lecavalier in a Coyotes sweater.As sure as Joe Thornton was bound for Boston as last year'sconsensus No.
1 pick, Lecavalier is headed for Tampa Bay, whichmaneuvered itself into grabbing the first pick after it changedhands from Florida to San Jose.The Panthers gave it to the Sharks last November for ViktorKozlov.
Originally the No.
3 pick at the time, it became the No.
1pick when San Jose won the draft lottery in May.
The Sharks,though, sent it to the Lightning, in part, for Bryan Marchment.San Jose will still make out on Saturday.
The Sharks hold theNo.
2 pick and will be overjoyed at drafting the other top centerin the field, David Legwand of Gross Pointe, Mich., if Lecavaliergoes to Tampa as expected.
Legwand, who is 6-1{ and 175 pounds,scored 10 more goals than Lecavalier did last season, netting 54and 105 points for Plymouth in the Ontario League.Many scouts have the two rated evenly.
Central Scouting gaveLegwand 10s in skating, hockey sense and puckhandling and an eightin competitiveness.
He drew only sixes in checking and physicalplay, but he's being compared to Mike Modano of the Dallas Stars,the No.
1 pick in the 1988 draft.One scout said Legwand will be a franchise player andconsistently rank among the NHL's top 10 in scoring by the time heis 24.
Others have made similar remarks, which doesn't sit wellwith Lecavalier.The expansion Nashville Predators, who begin play next seasonand will raid each of the existing 26 NHL teams by taking at leastone player from every club in Friday's expansion draft, pick thirdoverall.
They are followed, in order, by Vancouver, Anaheim,Calgary and the New York Rangers.
Toronto, the New York Islandersand Chicago round out the top 10.Carolina picks 11th, Colorado 12th with the first of fourfirst-round picks, and Edmonton is 13th.
Then, it's up to theCoyotes, who lost their first-round pick last year in the JeremyRoenick trade with the Blackhawks.
Phoenix's first pick last yearwas second-rounder Juha Gustafsson, a defenseman from Finland.Although this year's draft class isn't seen as very deep afterthe first handful of picks, Phoenix should find itself a solidprospect at No.
14 to fit any one of its four or five major needs:a goal-scoring left winger to eventually complement Keith Tkachuk;a speedy top-line right wing who can finish; a capable goalie whocan fill a backup role within two to three years; and both anoffensive and defensive defenseman.Fata, who scored 43 goals and 76 points, might fall to them atthat spot.
But if 6-2, 195-pound left wing Ramzi Abid is still onthe board, he might be too hard to pass up.
Rated as the 11th-bestprospect by Central Scouting, he led the Quebec league in scoringwith 50 goals, 85 assists and 135 points in 68 games.
He alsoposted Tkachuk-like numbers in the penalty box 266 minutes inall.Abid is Tunisian by descent but was born in Montreal.
The onlything that scares some scouts away from him is his skating, whichhas been ranked at a five on a scale to 10.
Tkachuk's wheelswouldn't rate much better, but it's the overall game that countsmost.
And remember, Abid's a left winger, too.Czech defenseman Jiri Fischer (6-5{, 210) might be tough for theCoyotes to pass up if he's still available.
Ditto with 6-3 Ottawacenter Mark Bell, who scored 34 goals and has been compared to ayoung Bobby Smith by his juniors coach, Brian Kilrea, who alsocoached Smith, it should be noted.The top goalie prospect is Patrick DesRochers, a 6-3{,195-pounder who went 26-17-11 with a respectable 3.35 goals-againstaverage for Sarnia in the Ontario league.ST.
LOUIS If batting practice is becoming a distraction toMark McGwire, what will happen if he's sitting at 55 home runs witha full month remaining in the season?Of course, not everyone who plays this game gets the samereception.
In today's game, McGwire is an unrivaled home- runhitter.
The very best in his field and quite possibly the bestever.He has hit a home run every 11.54 at-bats, better than anyone inthe history of the game, including Babe Ruth, who is next at 11.76.Baseball's sluggers have always lived in a specially reservedloft, receiving far more attention than anyone else in the gamebecause they can consistently accomplish the most difficult feat inthe game hitting the ball over the fence.So when the rare ones come along, the type who hit them fartherthan anyone else ever has, the attention dial is turned upconsiderably.
McGwire knows very well what will happen if he getswithin striking distance of Roger Maris' single-season home runrecord of 61.The media circus will descend upon him to the point where hewill feel smothered.
McGwire said he felt stifled last week whenthe Cardinals came to Bank One Ballpark and then to Houston, citieswhere he had never before played.This is the same freckle-faced kid who came out of SouthernCalifornia and was blown away when reporters constantly wanted totalk to him during his first year in the majors in 1987, whenMcGwire shattered the rookie record for home runs with 49.But that's where McGwire is wrong.
He's now playing in a citythat appreciates and recognizes greatness, not what's become thewasteland in Oakland, where he spent his first 10 years.During his first years in the majors, one of McGwire's biggestproblems was his reluctance to say no to most requests.
His motherand father, both of whom are in St. Louis this weekend, taughtMcGwire and his three brothers to be respectful of others.McGwire has learned to say no, both to reporters and fans.
He'shad to.
He is still one of the most accommodating superstars in thegame, a trait that has made him one of the most well-liked athletesin sports.Along the way, McGwire has probably shattered some fans'perception of him.
But it's never been spiteful or malicious.The spotlight will become brighter during the All-Star Gamefestivities, where tickets to the home run-hitting contest mightbecome a tougher ticket than the game on Tuesday.McGwire is no zoo animal.
He is, however, the greatest spectaclein the game today.
Just remember, he is human.
Pedro Gomez can be reached at pedro.gomez(at)pni.com via e-mail.
ST. LOUIS The Diamondbacks, full of life after a three-gamesweep of the Reds in Cincinnati, appear to be falling back into arut against the St. Louis Cardinals.Their bullpen unraveled, and when their hitters were given theopportunity to help the Cardinals' bullpen come apart at the seams,they couldn't get the job done.The result was a second straight loss, 4-2, on Saturday night infront of a sellout crowd at Busch Stadium.Despite giving up four walks and three hits, right-hander AmauryTelemaco managed to play Houdini and escape trouble to hold theCardinals scoreless in his first start as a Diamondback.He had a 1-0 lead, in fact, thanks to a bloop ground-rule RBIdouble by Karim Garcia in the fourth inning.
The hit came offright-hander Manny Aybar, making the start in place of injuredleft-hander Kent Mercker.The lead could have been bigger.
Jay Bell and Garcia werestranded at third and second, respectively, when Kelly Stinnettfouled out to end the inning.And, the Diamondbacks probably should have scored in the secondinning.
Instead of waiting for a chance for Stinnett or Telemaco todrive in Bell, who had singled and moved to third on left fielderRon Gant's error, Manager Buck Showalter sent Bell toward the plateas Garcia made contact.
Bell was easily thrown out by Cardinalsshortstop Royce Clayton.Right-hander Willie Banks took over for Telemaco in the fifthand challenged the Cardinals' 2-3-4 hitters, getting DelinoDeShields on a comebacker to the mound and striking out MarkMcGwire and Brian Jordan.He surrendered singles to the first two batters, Ray Lankfordand Willie McGee, and those two men later scored Lankford on agroundout by Tom Lampkin and McGee on a bases-loaded walk toDeShields.Right-hander Clint Sodowsky came in to face McGwire, and got himon the first pitch on a fielder's-choice grounder.The Diamondbacks' biggest opportunity came in the seventh, whenBell led off with a single and Stinnett and pinch-hitter YamilBenitez walked to load the bases against right-handed reliever JohnFrascatore.Showalter went to right-hander Felix Rodriguez in the seventh,but he gave up a leadoff single to Jordan and a two-run homer toLankford for a 4-1 lead.Stinnett, who homered in the Diamondbacks' previous visit herein mid-April, hit a one-out solo shot, his sixth of the season, offright-hander Rick Croushore in the ninth.
But it was too late.Croushore struck out pinch-hitter Mike Robertson and got Batistaon a comebacker to end the game.Showalter said Telemaco was to have been limited to between 60and 70 pitches, but was allowed to go to 74.
Showalter was mildlypleased, and said Telemaco had earned another start, which willcome in an interleague game against Texas on Thursday at Bank OneBallpark.An (x) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishablefrom those of the book above.
A (b) indicates that some bookstoresreport receiving bulk orders for a book.An (x) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishablefrom those of the book above.
A (b) indicates that some bookstoresreport receiving bulk orders for a book.Rankings reflect sales figures for the week ending June 13,1998, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in allsuch outlets nationwide.
The number of titles within the twosubdivisions of non-fiction can change from week to week,reflecting changes in book buying.An (x) following a book's ranking indicates that a book's salesare barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
A (b)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for abook.Rankings reflect sales figures for the week ending June 13,1998, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in allsuch outlets nationwide.
The number of titles within the twosubdivisions of non-fiction can change from week to week,reflecting changes in book buying.An (x) following a book's ranking indicates that a book's salesare barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
A (b)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for abook.This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Monday, June22, 1998.
We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDTMonday-Friday.
Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.EDT Monday-Friday.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.IRANUS TEHRAN, Iran Now that they're playing soccertogether, what are the attitudes in Iran to opening up a betterrelationship with the United States.
(Kaplow, Cox News Service).TRIP WASHINGTON Behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton'sfive-city tour lie countless strategy meetings, site inspections,event consultations and back-room skull sessions .
It's all thework of a temporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats,security agents, communications experts, transportationspecialists, physicians and even chefs who have come together inrecent months to plan the presidential trip to China.
(Deans, CoxNews Service).BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON What's ahead for a House-passed billthat would force people who declare bankruptcy to pay back more oftheir debts, if they can.
(Harlan, Cox News Service).HOWIE You know him as Howie Mandel, the standup comic who'schampioned bullhorn-style wackiness for years.
Today, meet HowardMandel, TV's newest daytime talk show host.
(Harris, AtlantaJournal-Constitution).
19.GA-FLA 0622 Follow on the Georgia-Florida high school game,including an idea officials are discussing about moving the 1999game to December and tying it into the Peach Bowl festivities.
(Towers, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).
12.SAN FRANCISCO Playing and dressing as if he were on anotherplanet, Payne Stewart continued to set himself apart from the fieldat the U.S. Open Friday in a style that was all his own.He hit a cyprus tree and made birdie.
He buried a few balls inthe unkempt rough and slapped another into the grandstand and stillsalvaged pars.
He bent putts across double-sloped greens and dancedlike he was at a Greatful Dead Concert when they lipped the cup anddropped in.But then the unreality and gravity of the Olympic Club LakeCourse finally began to exact its toll.
Holding a five-stroke leadat one point, Stewart slipped from 7-under to 3-under on the backnine, capped by one of the strangest birdie attempts ever witnessedby Stewart or anyone else.Sitting pin-high with eight feet to go for a four-stroke lead,Stewart's birdie try on 18 slipped around the hole, gently rolledat an angle down the severe slope of the green and didn't stopuntil he had a 25-footer coming back uphill.
He missed, made bogeyand then ran up to the clubhouse with a slim one-stroke lead overJeff Maggert and Bob Tway.Wearing his trademark plaid knickers and jaunty red cap, Stewartcertainly could not be mistaken for someone who was ready totighten up like the rest of the first-round leaders at the fabledcourse.
But the putt on 18 put a damper on his good vibrations,which began with three straight birdies.Washington state native Kirk Triplett had a similar putt notlong after Stewart's, and he stopped the ball from rolling backwith his putter an infraction that cost him a two-stroke penaltyand put him well out of contention to make the cut.On the more normal side of the spectrum, the day also belongedto button-downed 19-year-old U.S.
Amateur champ Matt Kuchar, whohad four birdies to go with one bogey, a double bogey and the restpars to finish the first two rounds at 1-under.Kuchar, the Georgia Tech junior-to-be who captivated crowds withhis 21st-place finish at the Masters, served notice that he's nofluke.Kuchar was tied for third place with little-known Lee Porter andLee Janzen, whose 4-under-par 66 was the low score of the day.Porter, of Greensboro, N.C., has spent as much time on the AsianTour as he has playing on the PGA Tour but managed to qualify forhis first Open this year.
He capped his round with a 112-yardpitching wedge shot for eagle on the par-4 18th, a shot he countsamong the most memorable of his life.Maggert could understand Stewart's frustrations on a course inwhich only four players have managed to break par over 72 holes inthree previous Opens held here in 1955, 1966 and 1987.As expected, the short but topsy-turvy and tree-lined LakeCourse took its toll on a number of players who were flirting withthe leaderboard on Thursday.
Darkhorse Mark Carnevale, who startedFriday's round in second place at 3-under, double-bogeyed the394-yard par-4 second hole and then bogeyed No.
4 to slip to evenpar.
The second hole also claimed Joe Durant, who had been tiedwith Carnevale going into Friday's round, and the 10-yearjourneyman pro from Pensacola, Fla., fell to 1-over by the end ofthe day.Course conditions also claimed many of the 20-something starswho were counted on to do well in this Open.Leonard, picked as one of the favorites to win the tournament ina pre-Open poll, shot 75 to go with an opening round 71 and didn'tlike being upstaged by the likes of Kuchar.Fred Couples just barely made the cut after a 5-over 75 Fridayto put him at 147 for the tournament, as did 58-year-old JackNicklaus, playing in his 42nd Open.
Nicklaus, who got a specialexemption just to make the original field, needed a 50-foot birdieputt on 18 to stay alive.
Tiger Woods and Leonard also flirted withelimination at 6-over 146, and Casey Martin qualified, one strokeahead of them.
The list of those who headed home last nightincluded 1997 PGA champion Davis Love III, 1996 Open champ SteveJones, 1995 Open champ Corey Pavin, Tom Watson, Nick Faldo andFuzzy Zoeller.Even when things were going well, Stewart knew his lead could besquandered, given the severity of the Lake Course.KOSOVO-REBELS (Junik, Serbia) War has a choreography that onlyits participants understand.
Fighters, locked in an embrace, feelout the daily beat and rhythm until the set is shattered by a surgeof anarchic violence.
Such a dance is underway in Kosovo, wherearmed peasant farmers, joined by hundreds of rebels that havepicked up weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania,face down some 50,000 government soldiers and special police.
ByChris Hedges.CENTENARIANS (Phoenix) Centenarians aren't what they used tobe.
There are so many between 30,000 and 50,000, according todemographers, up from the 1980 estimate of 15,000 that it's hardto get a televised 100th birthday greeting from Willard Scott, whomentions 12 every week on the Today Show.
Every week about 90 newcentenarians are disappointed.
Centenarians are the country'sfastest growing age group, with projections that by the middle ofthe next century more than 600,000 Americans will be over 100.
BySara Rimer.TEXMEX-BORDER (El Paso) Four years after the North AmericanFree Trade Agreement lowered trade barriers, the cities alongTexas' long border with Mexico are struggling to become more thanglorified truck stops for the free trade era, as they watch theirmanufacturing jobs move south by the thousands.
By Sam HoweVerhovek.CONGRESS-SPEND (Washington) A curtain-raiser on theappropriations process, which is finally under way in both houses,with floor votes to start soon.
These are the only bills Congressmust pass, so here's a look at what's in them, what are the likelycollisions, House vs. Senate and Congress vs. White House.
ByKatharine Q. Seelye.AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER -- A list of stories being considered byNew York Times editors for Page 1; will move at 4:30 p.m. ET.AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT -- A description of the front page layout ofthe first edition of The New York Times; will move at 7:30 p.m. ET.This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Monday, June22, 1998.
We will update this budget at 6 p.m. EDT.Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. EDTMonday-Friday.
Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.EDT Monday-Friday.If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, theCox News Service, at 404-526-5456.CLINTON-TRIP-1STLEDE When he visits China beginning next week,virtually everything President Clinton does every step he takes,every place he goes, every bite he eats will have beenchoreographed weeks in advance by a horde of advance men and womenwho will have scheduled every second of his trip.
After spendinghours studying videotapes of the routes Clinton will take, SecretService agents will have ensured that manhole covers are sealed andair ducts blocked to prevent potential assassins from plantingbombs.
His armor-plated limousine will have been flown ahead.Hotels will have been comandeered for the president and hisentourage.
Detailed briefing books will have been prepared for him,providing classified information on the ranking officials with whomhe will meet.
Phone banks will have been put in place for thetraveling White House press.
Sophisticated electronics gear willhave been installed so the media can beam images back to the UnitedStates.
In all, hundreds of advance people will have worked aroundthe clock and millions of tax dollars will have been spent to makesure the whole thing goes off without a hitch.
(Deans, Cox NewsService).EDS: Originally moved Saturday and is being updated Sunday withadditional information for those who did not already run it.BANKRUPTCY WASHINGTON By setting aside tobacco legislationthat would have increased costs for smokers, the Senate cleared theway last week to consider a bill that will raise the ante forpeople whose debts are driving them into bankruptcy.Unlike the tobacco debate, which barely touched on smokers'responsibility for their habits, the debate over tighteningbankruptcy rules is likely to focus on consumers' responsibilityfor paying their bills.HOWIE You know him as Howie Mandel, the standup comic who'schampioned bullhorn-style wackiness for years.
Today, meet HowardMandel, TV's newest daytime talk show host.
(Harris, AtlantaJournal-Constitution).
19.GA-FLA 0622 Follow on the Georgia-Florida high school game,including an idea officials are discussing about moving the 1999game to December and tying it into the Peach Bowl festivities.
(Towers, Atlanta Journal-Constitution).
12.TAX-REFORM (Topeka, Kan.) The new way that taxes are collectedin this Midwest state capital may offer taxpayers everywhere aglimpse of what the future may be like in dealing with the InternalRevenue Service.
By David Cay Johnston.WASHINGTON By setting aside tobacco legislation that wouldhave increased costs for smokers, the Senate cleared the way lastweek to consider a bill that will raise the ante for people whosedebts are driving them into bankruptcy.Unlike the tobacco debate, which barely touched on smokers'responsibility for their habits, the debate over tighteningbankruptcy rules is likely to focus on consumers' responsibilityfor paying their bills.Gramm and other reform-minded lawmakers are reacting tobankruptcy filings that have hit highs not seen since the collapseof the real estate market and savings loans in the last half ofthe 1980s.
With no similar economic crisis to explain the currentspike in bankruptcy filings, some lawmakers are pointing theirfingers at the debtors.Consumer advocates, in turn, are pointing fingers at banks andretailers that are marketing credit cards at unprecedented rates.University of Texas law professor Jay Westbrook, a bankruptcy lawspecialist, prepared for a recent speech in Austin by collectingeight days' worth of credit offers that he and his wife received inthe mail.
The total hit $600,000.Despite the professors' concern, Congress has moved atuncharacteristic speed to change the rules governing the levels ofrelief available to people with crushing debts.
The House approvedits package of changes June 10 in a 306-118 vote.The Senate is expected to take up its version of bankruptcyreform in mid-July, after a 2 1/2 week recess for the July 4holiday.The main goal of both the House and Senate bills is to restrictdebtors' use of a section of the U.S. bankruptcy code known asChapter 7, under which individuals and married couples declare aninability to pay debts and effectively have most of them canceled,or discharged.Some personal debts such as income taxes, child support,alimony, student loans and court judgments for fraud or injury toanother person are considered priority debts and must be paid infull under both Chapter 7 and its alternative, Chapter 13.Under Chapter 13, individuals and couples reorganize their debtsand repay part of them under a plan approved by the bankruptcycourt.
Chapter 13 is the personal version of Chapter 11, which isused by corporations to reorganize debt.One subject likely to interest those institutional investors iswhat happens to Berkshire Hathaway after Buffett, who is 67,retires or dies.
General Re's board had similar questions inconsidering the merger, Buffett said.Ronald Ferguson, chairman and chief executive of General Re, whowill become a Berkshire director as part of the merger, said,however, that except concerning the operations of General Re, he isnot in line to play any part in those succession plans.Institutions might also wonder what Buffett is going to do withthe $24 billion in new investment capital that will come into thecompany from General Re's operations.
Only about $5 billion of thatis invested in common stocks currently, Buffett said, with thebalance in fixed income, and the biggest portion of that inmunicipal bonds.Buffett, who recently has said that he has had a hard timefinding cheap stocks to buy, admitted that he did not yet know theanswer to that.NEW YORK Joao Gilberto may well be the coolest man alive.
Theunassuming, bespectacled, 67-year-old singer walked on stagewithout introduction or ceremony at Carnegie Hall on Friday, satdown with his guitar and proceeded to play one quietly hauntingbossa nova after another for 90 minutes, putting a preternaturalhush over the sold-out audience.He sang as if he were alone, communing with his guitar.
Hisfingers brushed featherweight syncopated chords; his voice, justabove a whisper, contemplated love and music, beauty and sadness.During songs and between them, he hunched over his guitar, nearlymotionless but for his restless, knowing fingers.
Every so often hewould swing one knee to his own irresistible rhythms.
And once,just once, he smiled.Gilberto's repertory has come from Antonio Carlos Jobim, DorivalCaymmi and other brilliant composers; he lends the songs a luminousgentleness, at once concentrated and serene.
Now, in a rare tour tomark the 40th anniversary of that first single, Gilberto wasteasing out new secrets from his earliest songs.Gilberto's voice is still almost weightless, but it's not assmooth now as it was; there are scratches in it, and its lowernotes can shade into husky ambiguity.He circled in on the songs, singing through the versesstraightforwardly and then returning to them more freely, lettinghis voice float and drift away from the dependable pulse of hisguitar, as if he was still mulling over how he should feel.Every so often, he turned to scat-singing, like a muffledtrombone.
His voice and guitar achieved subtle, impish feats oftiming and harmony, though he never flaunted them.
Yet he was sounderstated that any modest musical variation, like a key change ora shift in his guitar rhythm, arrived like a thunderclap.When Bebel Gilberto, his daughter, joined him for a finalencore, she showed how radical Gilberto's reticence had been.
Shemade phrases crest and subside; she made eye contact with theaudience.
But after her father's solo performance, she seemed to betrying too hard, creating a diversion from his unwavering purity.ST.
LOUIS, Mo.
Revisiting works of the past can be a thanklessjob for a composer, because listeners tend to regard an earliercomposer's thought process as sacrosanct and a later composer'sadditions as intrusive.But Mahler's Bach orchestrations raise eyebrows, and earnestcompletions of scores by Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert and Mahlerhave generated reams of critical debate (or, in some cases, yawnsof indifference).Instead, Goehr retained the lament and built his own structurearound it.
Strands of Monteverdian harmonic, melodic and ornamentalstyle, as well as references to his instrumental coloration, arewoven through a contemporary fabric of quirky rhythms, eerie andexotic percussion textures, brash, expressive dissonance and vocallines that combine declamation and gorgeously arching melody.In Rinuccini's libretto, a weak-willed Teseo vows to makeArianna his queen, then abandons her on Naxos.
She is disconsolate,but Venus and Cupid have conspired to send Bacchus to Naxos, wherehe falls in love with Arianna and marries her.
In Ocel's staging,this finale is too much for Arianna, whose lament for Teseo waspresented only moments earlier as a wrenching mad scene.
She walksthrough her courtship and wedding with glazed eyes and a skepticallook.
Goehr set the text in Italian; it is being presented here ina deftly poetic English translation by Margaret B. Stearns.Ocel, abetted by Leslie M. Taylor's spare set and RobinVerHage-Abrams' polyglot costuming, parodies this tale of gods andmortals in a brilliant parade of modern stereotypes.Among the gods, a punkish Cupid wears red leather, reads asupermarket tabloid and carries a switchblade instead of a bow andarrow.
Venus is a tipsy, aging bleached-blond courtesan and Jove isa doddering antique.
Bacchus, looking like a paunchy Kurt Cobain,has a retinue of Blues Brothers imitators.Among the mortals, Teseo and his soldiers wear American Armyuniforms, and Teseo's Councilor, who persuades him to leaveArianna, is a slick lawyer with tortoise-shell glasses and aleather briefcase.
Arianna is dressed in a bridal gown; herconfidante, Dorilla, is a frumpy 1950s housewife.
Except for theirodd masks, the fishermen who convey a lot of the information inRinuccini's talky libretto are presented straightforwardly.Executing Ocel's notions and Goehr's music while keeping theghosts of Monteverdi and Rinuccini in listeners' minds is a lot toask, but the singers were clearly game.Phyllis Pancella's Arianna hit the emotional extremes perfectly:her powerful, beautifully sung account of the lament was theproduction's most gripping moment, and her sudden acceptance of herimproved situation in the work's final seconds gave the piece asurprising, comic twist.
Marcel Reijans, once he got a waywardvibrato under control, gave a solid account of Teseo's conflictedmusic.
James Wood was the suitably shadowy Councilor, and MarkCrayton, a fine countertenor, was an amusingly dissolute Bacchus.There were also strong contributions by Dorothy Byrne, as Venus andDorilla, Janice Creswell, as Cupid, and Kevin Short, Jeffrey Piconand Thomas Trotter in smaller roles.A small instrumental ensemble drawn from the St. Louis Symphonyand conducted by Grant Llewellyn, moved between Monteverdi's styleand Goehr's music with admirable agility.
The production runsthrough Thursday.ATLANTA In the beginning, back in 1937, there was Snow White,with her squeaky-clean image and her squeaky-clean dream thatsomeday her prince would come.
Never mind that she spends most ofthe movie co-habitating with seven vertically challenged men.Beauties all.
Not necessarily brainless beauties, either.
Butwhat did any of them really want out of life besides the right tolive happily ever after with the right guy?Her personality: Yearning to explore the airy other world abovethe ocean, even if she risks her life.Moral of the story: Someday you'll find your prince, but only ifyou go for a makeover, like losing your tail and gills.Snow White, eat my dust: Doesn't sweep floors, disobeys dad andshe finds and saves her prince, not the other way around.Her look: Proper French bourgeois who actually takes timetwisting her hair into a 'do, unlike these hang-loose otherheroines.Her personality: Yearning to be left alone by handsome, meanGaston, so she can read her books in peace; smart but kind.Moral of the story: Sometimes a big tough guy really needs love,because at heart he's just Robby Benson talking in a deep voice.Snow White, eat my dust: A dark forest wouldn't freak her outthe way it does Miss White; plus, she falls in love with the Beastbecause of his soul, not his looks or lineage.Moral of the story: Honor your heritage but welcome othercultural traditions.
And never trust a blond, 'cause he'll onlybreak your heart.Snow White, eat my dust: She's more interested in what's rightfor her people and her land than in landing a boyfriend; in aDisney first, she doesn't get the guy.Her look: Tomboyish as a bride in training, but brawny as asoldier (thanks to padded armor and a haircut).Her personality: Yearning to save her family's honor and herfather's life by proving herself a worthy fighter.Moral of the story: Sometimes you have to break rules to do whatyou know is right.Snow White, eat my dust: Can you see Snow in armor, shooting acannon and kicking Hun butt?
No, I don't think so.
First gig: During a 1979 Los Angeles vacation, took a dare togo on stage at Comedy Store.
Got noticed by a Hollywood agent.Then the rubber glove question comes up and there's a pause along, uncomfortable silence that feels like all the oxygen is beingsucked out of the room Mandel's in even though he's 2,000 milesaway.Back when Mandel was known as a geek-a-zoid stand-up comic, he'dput a rubber glove on his head, blow real hard and inflate it likea balloon.
Big laughs then.
Not so funny now.But the talk show circuit has become a graveyard of goodintentions (remember Carnie Wilson?
Tempestt Bledsoe?
DannyBonaduce?
), and only a handful of hosts have done it very well orvery long.Mandel has a built-in following from his days as stand-up comicand actor, but the big question remains: Can a former rubberglovehead ever be taken seriously as a daytime talk show host?MONTREAL Despite their denials, surely they want to be a partof it: New York, New York, then Atlanta, Atlanta.
How else toexplain how listless the Braves were for most of the weekend?Surely, they overlooked the Expos in anticipation of tonight'sYankee biggie in the Bronx.On Friday, facing a reclamation project named Shawn Boskie,Atlanta was humbled 14-1, its worst loss in four years.
On Sunday,after the encouraging Saturday night return of John Smoltz, theBraves stumbled against another right-hander with no prior successagainst Atlanta.
Dustin Hermanson allowed just five hits in eightinnings and, save for Michael Tucker's solo homer, frustratedAtlanta in Montreal's 4-1 victory.That denied the Braves a 15th straight series win over Montreal,which hadn't taken a series from Atlanta since 1994.
It also gaveExpos manager Felipe Alou his 500th career victory, who savored iteven more coming against Bobby Cox.Neagle's now lost as many games as he did all last season when,at 20-5, he was the NL's lone 20-game winner.
The sixth-inning,leadoff homer by Shane Andrews was the 16th surrendered by Neagle(seventh in his last four starts), just two fewer than he allowedlast year.But the third inning was decisive, when the Expos batted aroundand scored three times.
This after Neagle had retired the firstnine batters in order.What with baby-boomers of the female persuasion wringing theirhands, furrowing their brows and working themselves up intofrenzies over the passing years and the ebb of hormones, thankgoodness Cybill Shepherd is offering advice.- Personals walks the plank: Dennis Conner has nothing to dowith America True, the America's Cup vessel being built at Pier 17; Dawn Riley is captain and CEO.
The fund-raiser is private, byinvitation only.What with baby-boomers of the female persuasion wringing theirhands, furrowing their brows and working themselves up intofrenzies over the passing years and the ebb of hormones, thankgoodness Cybill Shepherd is offering advice.- Personals walks the plank: Dennis Conner has nothing to dowith America True, the America's Cup vessel being built at Pier 17; Dawn Riley is captain and CEO.
The fund-raiser is private, byinvitation only.WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast ofhundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await PresidentClinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road cityof Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling sincelast winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detailof a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 yearsof Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation'sfuture.For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tourlie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, eventconsultations and back-room skull sessions.
It's all the work of atemporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, securityagents, communications experts, transportation specialists,physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent monthsto plan the presidential trip to China.There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to beworked out, starting with the basic question of just how should theLeader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away fromthe office?Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the officealong in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magiccarpet.
It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300an hour not including the crew of 26 can move the essentialfunctions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue tovirtually anywhere else on the planet.In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow AirForce One on the trip as a standby.In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have hisown physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room'sworth of medical gear and supplies.
And as a precaution, bottledwater is being flown for the president and First Lady HillaryRodham Clinton to drink and bathe.The president will take along his own car, too an armoredblack limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet.Nine other armored limos will also be flown ahead to transportvarious high-ranking officials accompanying the president.Also flying ahead will be a pair of sport utility vehicles usedby the U.S. Secret Service agents who protect the president.He will also take his own private telephone company banks ofswitching and transmission gear must be transported and set up daysahead of time for each stop he'll make so that the president cantalk with international leaders or key U.S. officials anywherearound the world without worrying that someone else might belistening.
All told, it's estimated the White House will be taking60 tons of communications gear.Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president willalso take along enough personnel to staff a good-sizedcorporation.The president will have his personal valet, forinstance, and Mrs. Clinton will bring her personal hairdresser.Scores of other administration officials with expertise ineverything from trade and environmental matters to arms control andinternational law will also be along on the trip, many of themtraveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.It isn't yet clear precisely how large the presidentialentourage to China will be, but some 800 people went along withClinton to Africa last spring, in addition to 200 journalists andmedia technicians.The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller thoughthe press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa largely because many of the American corporations that sentexecutives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.The cost for members of the media accompanying the president isexpected to be about $15,000.Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agentssometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-beassailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensivesecurity effort.When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of CapeTown in South Africa last March, for instance, local securityagents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,canvassed the city and welded shut manhole covers along possibleroutes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenueof attack and also sending out the message that a tight securitynet had been cast across the seaside city.Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theater, scripted,directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identifiedby the White House.Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try toredefine American impressions and to show that his policy ofengaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,is helping to foster change.With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to doin China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristicof hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast countrythat are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-runeconomy.Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, inconcert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from thedepths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unityand achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vastpotential for the future.Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit the terra-cottawarriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stockexchange in Shanghai there are dozens more his advance teamconsidered, surveyed and later rejected.Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control anine-day tour through the world's most populous country.
The bestlaid plans, indeed, can go awry.When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop inGhana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a millionpeople turned out to listen to him speak.
At one point, the crowdsurged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence.
Filmfootage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move backdominated television coverage of the day's events, to theconsternation of White House spin doctors.It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who haveinsisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in frontof the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's LiberationArmy beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutallycrushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House messageshop might dream up.
The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advanceteam.WASHINGTON Red paper lanterns, gongs, drums and a cast ofhundreds decked out as Tang Dynasty warriors will await PresidentClinton this Thursday when he arrives at the ancient Silk Road cityof Xian to kick off a nine-day tour of China.The imperial-style welcome will wind up a much longer journey,however, for legions of U.S. officials who have been toiling sincelast winter to choreograph and coordinate every imaginable detailof a state visit that will take the president through 3,500 yearsof Chinese history and leave him peering far into the nation'sfuture.For behind the scenes at each leg of Clinton's five-city tourlie countless strategy meetings, site inspections, eventconsultations and back-room skull sessions.
It's all the work of atemporal team of White House schedulers, diplomats, securityagents, communications experts, transportation specialists,physicians and even chefs who have come together in recent monthsto plan the presidential trip to China.There are, for instance, eye-popping logistical matters to beworked out, starting with the basic question of just how should theLeader of the Free World travel, and how long must he be away fromthe office?Answer to both: take your own jumbo jet and bring the officealong in the form of Air Force One, the president's personal magiccarpet.
It's a specially modified Boeing 747-200 that, for $35,300an hour not including the crew of 26 can move the essentialfunctions of the White House from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue tovirtually anywhere else on the planet.In case it breaks down, a second, similar plane will shadow AirForce One on the trip as a standby.In the event the president hits a rough patch, he'll have hisown physician with him, as well as a complete emergency room'sworth of medical gear and supplies.
And as a precaution, bottledwater is being flown for the president and First Lady HillaryRodham Clinton to drink and bathe.The president will take along his own car, too an armoredblack limousine that flies ahead in its own Air Force cargo jet.Nine other armored limos will also be flown ahead to transportvarious high-ranking officials accompanying the president.Also flying ahead will be a pair of sport utility vehicles usedby the U.S. Secret Service agents who protect the president.He will also take his own private telephone company banks ofswitching and transmission gear must be transported and set up daysahead of time for each stop he'll make so that the president cantalk with international leaders or key U.S. officials anywherearound the world without worrying that someone else might belistening.
All told, it's estimated the White House will be taking60 tons of communications gear.Good help can be hard to find overseas, so the president willalso take along enough personnel to staff a good-sizedcorporation.The president will have his personal valet, forinstance, and Mrs. Clinton will bring her personal hairdresser.Scores of other administration officials with expertise ineverything from trade and environmental matters to arms control andinternational law will also be along on the trip, many of themtraveling separately aboard smaller Air Force transport craft.It isn't yet clear precisely how large the presidentialentourage to China will be, but some 800 people went along withClinton to Africa last spring, in addition to 200 journalists andmedia technicians.The China entourage is expected to be somewhat smaller thoughthe press contingent will be twice as large as it was in Africa largely because many of the American corporations that sentexecutives on the Africa trip have representative offices in China.The cost for members of the media accompanying the president isexpected to be about $15,000.Secret Service protection is, of course, secret, though agentssometimes take very public steps aimed at deterring would-beassailants by showing the presence of a large and comprehensivesecurity effort.When President Clinton visited the crime-ridden city of CapeTown in South Africa last March, for instance, local securityagents, working hand-in-glove with the U.S. Secret Service,canvassed the city and welded shut manhole covers along possibleroutes of the presidential motorcade, closing off a possible avenueof attack and also sending out the message that a tight securitynet had been cast across the seaside city.Ultimately, a presidential trip is global theater, scripted,directed and managed to convey American priorities, as identifiedby the White House.Clinton hopes to use the China trip, for instance, to try toredefine American impressions and to show that his policy ofengaging with China economically, politically and diplomatically,is helping to foster change.With that in mind, one of the first things Clinton plans to doin China is to visit a small village named Xia He, characteristicof hundreds of thousands of rural hamlets across the vast countrythat are struggling to shift away from the old ways of a state-runeconomy.Largely by shifting to market-based economic practices, inconcert with opening up to foreign investment, tourism and trade,China has seen perhaps half a billion of its people rise from thedepths of hardscrabble poverty over the past two decades.Clinton also hopes to underscore China's long history of unityand achievement, while, at the same time, spotlighting its vastpotential for the future.Those themes will underpin his planned visit to the Great Wall,built 2200 years ago to keep out invaders from the north.Of the dozens of sites he plans to visit the terra-cottawarriors near Xian, the Forbidden City in Beijing, the stockexchange in Shanghai there are dozens more his advance teamconsidered, surveyed and later rejected.Despite months of planning, it's impossible to fully control anine-day tour through the world's most populous country.
The bestlaid plans, indeed, can go awry.When Clinton opened his Africa tour in March with a stop inGhana, for instance, a crowd estimated at some quarter of a millionpeople turned out to listen to him speak.
At one point, the crowdsurged forward, dangerously pinning two women against a fence.
Filmfootage of Clinton's panic-stricken cries for people to move backdominated television coverage of the day's events, to theconsternation of White House spin doctors.It is the Chinese authorities, the White House claims, who haveinsisted that Clinton be received by President Jiang Zemin in frontof the Great Hall of the People, which borders Tiananmen Square.Pictures of Clinton reviewing troops of the People's LiberationArmy beside the seat of a democracy movement the PLA brutallycrushed in 1989 is hardly the sort of image the White House messageshop might dream up.
The timing of the event, however - 10 p.m.Friday Eastern time - has the earmarks of an attentive advanceteam.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at a news conferenceafter the unanimous decision that the plan had no politicalramifications and was not a violation of the Israeli-Palestinianpeace accords, under which the final status of Jerusalem is to benegotiated with the Palestinians.Albright also held a conference call with American Jewishleaders to voice displeasure with the scheme, and then talked toNetanyahu by telephone Saturday.The loudest initial protest Sunday came not from Palestinians orthe United States, but from residents of the Israeli towns to beannexed, especially Mevasseret Zion.
Some of the residents of thesetowns are people who moved out of Jerusalem to escape the spread ofits rigorously Orthodox neighborhoods, and who are dead-set againstcoming under Jerusalem's control.
They tried to block theJerusalem-Tel Aviv highway Sunday, eading to scuffles with policein which eight people were arrested.The United States has been negotiating with Israel for manymonths now on a further Israeli withdrawal in the West Bank thatwould enable the long-stalled negotiations with Palestinians toenter into a final phase.
The future of Jerusalem is one of thecentral issues to be resolved.The arrangement would enable Jerusalem to expand and strengthenthe settlements and to fortify their ties with Jerusalem, with newroads and tunnels.In the west, the plan recommended that areas from Betar to TsurHadassah to the southwest, and to Shoresh and Kiryat Yearim in theJerusalem corridor, be annexed outright.
These areas would swellJerusalem's area by half, from 48 square miles to 72 square miles,and would make room for 140,000 housing units with 1 millionresidents.The plan also called for the construction of various roads,including a beltway in East Jerusalem, and for the investment ofmoney into the creation of high-tech industry.One major government concern addressed by the expansion plan wasthe fact that Jerusalem has been losing secular and prosperousmiddle-class residents in recent years because of the rapid growthof the relatively poor strictly Orthodox population in the city.Another government concern is that the Palestinian population inJerusalem has been growing at a greater rate than the Jewishpopulation.
A 1995 census put the city's total population at591,400, with 417,000 Jews and 174,400 Arabs.At a press conference Sunday, Netanyahu and the mayor ofJerusalem, Ehud Olmert, were relatively cautious in spelling outthe goals of the project.In the same tone, Netanyahu vowed that construction would soonbegin on Har Homa, the site of a proposed Jewish neighborhood insoutheastern Jerusalem whose announcement 16 months ago wasfiercely condemned by the Palestinians.Super Bowl MVP John Elway skipped a trip to the White House lastweek for a knee checkup (the MRI came up clean) and a tee time atInverness Golf Club in Denver.Cheerio, MJ: Kellogg had planned to issue a Corn Flakes boxfeaturing the NBA champion Chicago Bulls on the front, but the NBAsaid the company couldn't because Michael Jordan is a spokesman forGeneral Mills, which makes Wheaties.The NBA and Battle Creek, Mich.-based Kellogg said earlier thismonth they had an agreement for Kellogg to be the NBA'sbreakfast-food sponsor.
They planned to issue a commemorativecereal box with the championship winner.While inflation over all is at its lowest rate since the 1960s,prices have been rising rather noticeably in recent months for avariety of everyday items from fast-food hamburgers to automaintenance and dental care.Consider the experience of John Gachelin, a 28-year-oldmarketing executive, who moved with his wife to Dallas fromChicago, in part to lower their living costs.
Unlike Illinois,Texas has no state income tax.
And houses cost less.
But in theseven months since the move, the Gachelins have been hit with steepprice increases to rent videos, change the oil in their two cars,buy cigarettes (he smokes), use a pay phone and buy hardcoverbooks.What softens the blow for the Gachelins and many others are theprices that are not rising.
Most of the essentials food,gasoline, cars, furniture, appliances, everyday apparel areholding steady in price or becoming cheaper.
That is why theConsumer Price Index, which is an average of the prices ofthousands of goods and services, has risen by only 1.7 percent overthe last year.It is the extras in life along with a few striking essentials,like home prices and rents that are becoming noticeably moreexpensive, and that rise is raising eyebrows.
The University ofMichigan's weekly consumer surveys may be registering the smallestpercentage of Americans in 30 years worried about inflation, butthey are also registering a growing annoyance.Just how can the overall inflation rate remain so low while somany individual prices seem to be rising smartly?
The answer liesin the way the Consumer Price Index is calculated.
The governmentchecks 80,000 different prices each month, many of them formanufactured goods and commodities toys and cars, for example,and gasoline and food.
These prices figure heavily in the averagingprocess that produces the Consumer Price Index.
But over the lastyear, the prices of manufactured goods and commodities haveremained steady, in part because of the pressure of globalcompetition, and that has held down the overall index.The price increases these days are centered in the servicesector, where prices are rising rather smartly for a growing numberof items.
These increases, however, are not widespread enough topull up the overall index beyond its current low level.The expanding list of rising prices is partly a reflection ofthe robust economy.
As incomes rise and unemployment falls, peoplebecome more ambitious in their purchases and more tolerant of priceincreases, even while complaining.
So they go along with a New Yorkmerchant, for example, who has raised the price of his custom-madesuits by $100, to between $750 and $1,095.Merchants in general have become bolder in pushing up prices.That is particularly the case if what they sell is much in demandthese days and short in supply, like custom-made men's suits orrental apartments.
Or they are services available from no one else Walt Disney's theme parks, for example, and the state-run ferrysystem that carries 25 million riders a year between Seattle andthe numerous island communities in Puget Sound.Disney's admission price to its theme parks in Orlando, Fla.,rose nearly 5 percent in April, to $42, and the state-run ferrysystem's tickets went up 7 percent, on average, in May.
The newfares range up to $30 on the longest route.
The state ferrycommission said the increases were required to finance expansion ofthe fleet; the service is heavily used by tourists and commuters.The commuters expressed resignation.
Many said, in a questionnaire,that they had no reasonable alternative to the ferry.Prices in the last year have gone up significantly more than theinflation rate in more than 30 categories.
This is evident in thedata collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and in more thantwo dozen interviews with company executives and representatives oftrade and consumer organizations.The list includes price increases already much in the news: feesfor using automated-teller machines, for example, car rentals,airline fares for last-minute travelers, hotel rates, monthlyapartment rentals and housing prices, although the cost of runninga house has gone down for those who have refinanced mortgages.Other increases run the gamut of services: legal fees, dentalcare, HMO insurance premiums, parking-lot rates, some fast-foodrestaurant prices, long-distance phone calls made within a state,accountants' fees, school tuition at all levels and charges forvehicle maintenance.Entertainment is also more expensive cable television ratesare up, as are tickets to most theme parks and sports events,entrance fees for some national parks and even wine.
The price of afuneral also keeps going up.Rising costs are sometimes cited as justification for the priceincreases.
The Boston Red Sox, in announcing a ticket priceincrease at Fenway Park, argued that the money would go in part topay the salaries of expensive baseball players.
Procter Gambleinvoked higher paper costs as the reason for a 6 percent increasein the prices of bath and facial tissues in January.
And BurgerKing blamed the rising minimum wage, which has pushed up theearnings of many of its employees, as a reason for cutting backsharply on the discounting of its Whopper hamburger.Still, there is the problem of getting customers in the door.Americans have grown accustomed to discounts and bargains, andBurger King still offers 99-cent specials.
But now it generallyfeatures less costly food than the Whopper a small milkshake, forexample, or onion rings or fries.
The hope is that once in thedoor, customers will spring for the Whopper.That same sort of ceiling seemed to govern an increase in payphone rates in many states.
Deregulation permitted the increase,but an attempt by local phone companies, which own many of the payphones, to impose a 50-cent minimum in some Midwestern statesresulted in a sharp decline in use.
The customer resistancedisappeared at a 35-cent minimum, and that became the norm in manystates starting last October, although not in New York, which stillcharges 25 cents.WASHINGTON Hunkered down over pepperoni pizza and diet cola, aHouse task force on healthcare labored recently over one of themost contentious election year issues: whether to impose federalregulation on the nation's managed care companies.And the driving force making managed care into a front burnerissue, sat, some might even say as the unwanted dinner guest, atthe mahogany table in the back room of House Majority Whip DennisHastert's Capitol office.Norwood rode to Congress in 1994 in large part on the coattailsof the conservative agenda espoused by fellow Georgian, HouseSpeaker Newt Gingrich, as well as support from the businesscommunity.
But over the last six months, Norwood has raised the ireof both his conservative brethren and major business groups in hisquest to overhaul the way managed care is administered.Over the last year, Norwood has been drumming up support for hisbill, commonly called the Patient Access to Responsible Care Act(PARCA).Simply put, the bill would regulate the managed care industry,which provides health care to more than 160 million Americans bycreating several consumer protections.
For example, the bill wouldgive patients a way to appeal decisions made by their plans andmost importantly, it would allow patients to sue their health plansfor damages.So for the last four months, the task force has been workingwith Norwood at breakfast meetings and lunches to draft a bill thatseeks seeks to improve patient rights with managed care companieswithout angering the business community.Business groups are lobbying heavily against Norwood's bill andthere is a general sense that their efforts have paid off and thatthe bill that will emerge from the task force will be far differentfrom what Norwood advocated.Norwood is referring to what would happen to the bill if he tookit to the House floor and won.
The bill would have to pass theSenate.
If it passed the Senate, the next step would be for it togo to a committee conference , where he predicted that theRepublican leaders would massage it and change it to their liking.And all of that is subject to the co-sponsors keeping theirnames on the list of co-sponsors.
With the Republican leadersstanding in firm opposition to the bill, several Republicans saidthey would hesitate to continue their support of the measure.Still, Norwood is confident that he will prevail on importantparts of his bill.
And he has support from groups representingpatients and healthcare providers, which have long argued thatCongress should intervene to iron out managed care problems.Republicans on the task force said that bill that emerges wouldmost likely include the following: Gag Rule: a provision in the bill giving doctors in managedcare plans the authority to outline all of the options available topatients, despite the cost.
Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), which hasbeen the most controversial element in the debate over whether toimpose federal regulations on managed care companies.
Norwoodargues that the ERISA law unfairly offers employers liabilityprotection from the consequences of the healthcare decisions theymake that cause death or injury.
Under ERISA, employees can suetheir health insurer if they believe that they have made a wrongdecision, but they are barred from obtaining punitive andcompensatory damages.About 125 million workers, dependents and retirees are coveredby plans subject to ERISA, according to the Labor Department.Norwood argues that removing the bar on punitive and compensatorydamages in ERISA would force health plans to be accountable for thedecisions they make, thus improving the overall quality ofhealthcare.PHOENIX Lynn Adler, an advocate for the aging who enjoys thecompany of people who have made it to their 100th birthdays, gave aparty recently for her centenarian friends.
Nine of them showed up.Obviously, only a small number of people will live to be 100 one in 10,000 Americans and among those who do reach the centurymark, the rate of disability is high.
The nine centenarians at LynnAdler's party, the ones who get on television and are held up asrole models, are the exceptions.But centenarians are proportionately the United States'fastest-growing age group, with projections that by the middle ofthe next century, more than 800,000 Americans will be over 100.
Andso many are making it to 100 in relatively good health, as lifeexpectancies in general shoot up, that centenarians, oncesentimentalized rarities, have become a symbol of the country's ageboom and a metaphor for the dramatic shift in attitude about whatold means.Living to be 100 is no longer viewed as a quirk of nature, butas a distinct possibility, something to be worked for.
It is thegoal of the exercise and spirituality class for the aging thatBlondola Lucas, 76, a retired educator, leads at the White RockBaptist Church in Durham, N.C. One member of the class, JamesSchooler, who can do 25 push-ups at a clip, has seven years to go.Still, attitudes toward the very old are a mixture of admirationand dread.
About 30 percent of centenarians have full command oftheir faculties and are living in the community, said Leonard Poon,director of the University of Georgia gerontology center, and thedirector of a 10-year study of centenarians.But Poon, whose research confirmed findings of earlier studiesin Germany, said that about 45 percent of centenarians had somesort of disability, varying in severity.And disability can set in well before 100.
According to thecensus, 47 percent of those 95 and older are in nursing homes.
(Among those 85 and older, 22 percent are in nursing homes, whilethe number drops to 7 percent for those 75 to 84, and 1 percent forpeople ages 65 to 74.)
The average centenarian lives to be 102.The country's mixed perceptions of aging and longevity arereflected by a 1996 poll for the Alliance for Aging Research.According to the poll, 61 percent of Americans say they would liketo live to be 100, and while few expect to achieve that goal, 51percent think they will live to be at least 80.At the same time, a majority of Americans are anxious aboutaging, with 64 percent saying they are worried about living foryears in a nursing home because of a physical frailty or long-termillness, and 56 percent worried about developing Alzheimer'sdisease.When people talk about wanting to live to be 100, they surely donot have in mind being severely disabled patients in a nursinghome.
The paradox, says John Rowe, president of the Mount SinaiHospital and School of Medicine in New York City, is that peoplewant to live longer, but they do not want to get older or disabled.While the research is still in its early stages, Rowe and otherexperts say the evidence is that life is being prolonged, thatthere is a modest compression of the amount of time people spend inpoor health during their final years.For the next two weeks at Ye Olde All-England Lawn TennisChampionships in Londontown, there will be ye young tennis starletAnna Kournikova as the target of sneers and jeers, yet revered bythe media.Maybe that kinda kids' stuff plays in Siberia.
Maybe in England,it plays in the tabloids.
But over here, where even a simpletraffic signal knows when it's right to stop and go, we tend to geta little uptight about these March-July relationships.Before jetting off to the site of some of her greatestprofessional triumphs, Martina Navratilova was queried aboutKournikova's sex-appeal marketing technique and how she flauntsherself around hockeystud Sergei Fedorov .
The oldest competitor at the X-Games in San Diego is45-year-old street luger Steve Fernando of Van Nuys.
Which seemskinda like allowing a teen-ager with shoes into the plastic ballpitat Chuck E. Cheese. . . . Adidas is the top official shoe supplier to the 32-team WorldCup soccer tournament, footing the bill for seven countries.
Nikeis second with six (including the U.S.).
Could have been seven, butIndonesia didn't make the field. . . .
The Almighty Ducks proved again they're one mucked-up!ital!or-gan-EYE-za-shun in how it clumsily handled the ouster ofPierre Page the same guy who took them months and months just tohire last offseason.
Once again, Gordon Bombay waits in the Ducks'wings to take the job that's rightly his. . . .
This week's L.A. Business Journal decided Rupert Murdoch wasthe wealthiest man in the city with a personal fortune of $4.9billion.
That would make Murdoch employeeRaul Mondesi the most fortunate man in the city with a wealth oflawyers at his disposal.
. . .One of the subjects of Perls' study is Catherine McCaig, 102,who lives in her own home in Marshfield, Mass.
Although she uses awalker and requires the help of aides for bathing and dressing,Mrs.
McCaig still plays the piano, cooks the gourmet dishes shewatches Julia Child preparing on television and enjoys visitingwith her 93-year-old sister, Winifred Whynot, who lives across thestreet.Twenty-five years ago, 65 was viewed as the onset of old age.Now the marker has been advanced considerably, with 85 the officialdemarcation for what gerontologists refer to as the oldest-old, andthose 75 to 84 classified as the young-old.Life expectancy at birth in the United States has increasednearly 30 years since the turn of the century, from 47 to about 76 six years beyond the biblical life span of three score and 10.
Atthe same time, disability rates among older people have beenfalling since the early 1980s.As she noted in her book, Ms. Heilbrun has changed her mind.
At72, in good health and still working away, she recently completedfour detective stories in four months under her literary pseudonym,Amanda Cross.At 102, meanwhile, Milton Garland puts in a 20-hour week as anengineer at a refrigeration plant in Waynesboro, Pa.
In March,Garland was honored at the White House as the country's oldestworker.One of the difficulties in studying centenarians, besidesrecruiting subjects, is proving their age.
In Georgia, for example,where Poon recently completed his study, official birth records didnot start to be compiled until the 1920s.
Names and birth dateswere passed on in family Bibles, from generation to generation,Poon said.
In addition, he said, some people exaggerate their ageout of pride, or a wish for prestige.He and other experts say that there are no records tosubstantiate the claims of 115-year-olds in Soviet Georgia, andthat there is evidence to suggest that such people are using birthcertificates of relatives a generation or two older.The oldest person for whom there is extensive documentation wasJeanne Calment of Arles, France, who died in August 1997 at age122.
Miss Calment rode a bicycle until she was 115, and lived inher own apartment until age 110, when she moved into a nursinghome.And, not surprising, according to the studies and anecdotalreports, one thing centenarians do not do much of is worrying.Mrs.
McEathron, who grew up on a farm and reared two childrenalone during the Depression after her first husband left her, saidher later years had been the best ones.
It was not until her eighthdecade that she was able to stop working, as a restaurant hostessand hotel cashier.Doubts raised about the accuracy of a recent article that waspublished in Time magazine but was written by Cable News Networkjournalists are serious enough that Time's editors have ordered afurther investigation.The article asserted that the U.S. military dropped lethal nervegas on a Laotian village in 1970, during the Vietnam war, as partof a secret mission to kill American defectors.The issue of Time that appears Monday carries a letter toreaders from the managing editor, Walter Isaacson, telling themthat the magazine is now doing its own reporting on the matter andwill correct any mistakes or clarify any disputes in future issues.Within hours of the June 7 broadcast, CNN's report wascriticized as false, the producers were accused of ignoring orsuppressing evidence that undercut their poison-gas thesis, andTime's rival, Newsweek, had begun work on an article that, whenpublished the next week, would be an attempt to rebut much of thereport.Ten days after the broadcast, CNN's own military analyst, aretired major general with a Ph.D. in international relations fromColumbia University, resigned in protest, calling the report falseand noting he was not consulted during its preparation.CNN's own producers created some of the suspicion, by choosingnot to reveal a noteworthy fact about one of their most importantsources.The accusation that sarin, a nerve gas banned by internationallaw, was used during Operation Tailwind, code-named for the secretforays in Laos, is made most vigorously in the CNN report by twosoldiers who were there for one operation in 1970, Michael Hagenand Robert Van Buskirk.
But Van Buskirk told April Oliver, CNN'smain producer on this report, that he had repressed all memory ofthat day's events for 24 years, from 1974, when he had a religiousawakening, until Ms. Oliver began questioning him.Yet Ms. Oliver, who began work on the report last September, andJack Smith, a veteran CNN producer who joined her on the project inFebruary, decided to exclude mention of Van Buskirk'srecovered-memory revelation from their report.
Nor did it appear inthe Time magazine article, co-authored by Ms. Oliver and PeterArnett, the CNN correspondent on the televised report.John Stacks, an executive editor at Time who works on theNewsstand collaboration, said he had known about Van Buskirk'srepressed memories of the foray, which included an incident in theLaotian village where Van Buskirk said he chased a blond Americandefector and presumably killed him by throwing a grenade into ahole into which the man had fled.Stacks said he had read CNN's background briefing book, whichcontained transcripts of interviews, memos about off-camerainterviews, and scientific research about nerve gas, and wasconfident of the report's accuracy.
He also noted that Van Buskirkwas not CNN's only source.Two other soldiers from Operation Tailwind who appeared in theCNN report, Jim Cathy and Jay Graves, said they believed nerve gashad been dropped.
The retired admiral who was then chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, Thomas Moorer, now 86 years old, alsoappears on camera but his comments are ambiguous; Arnett'snarration says that Moorer admitted off-camera that nerve gas hadbeen used.Haworth also said that Tom Johnson, president of CNN, andRichard Kaplan, president of CNN/U.S., were unavailable forcomment.Three military experts told The New York Times that the use ofnerve gas in the Laotian foray described in the CNN report wouldhave been impossible: Thomas Stump, a former Air Force pilot whoflew two rescue missions for the unit that included Van Buskirk andHagen; Richard Shultz, a professor at the Fletcher School of Lawand Diplomacy at Tufts University who has spent the last threeyears writing a history of the secret operations in Southeast Asiaduring the war, and Maj. Gen. Smith.They said that extremely potent forms of tear gas can cause thesymptoms described by the Tailwind veterans in CNN's report vomiting, loss of bowel control, falling to the ground and thatsuch gases were often used in rescue missions such as the one Stumpflew the day Hagen, Van Buskirk, Cathy, Graves and McCarley wererescued in Laos.Had the gas used been nerve gas, they said, helicopter pilotsand bomber pilots would have been warned and equipped with gasmasks, which did not happen.Georgia won the 14th annual meeting 23-21 Saturday night onChance Gwaltney's 33-yard field goal with no time remaining.
Thevictory shaved Florida's advantage in the series to 6-5-3.That has given cause for game organizers to consider alternativeformats for the game.
The most recent option being discussed is toconduct the game in conjunction with the Peach Bowl in lateDecember.Stevens said that option is on the agenda for discussion in ameeting with Peach Bowl organizers in the next week to 10 days.There are numerous complications, however.
Foremost is a GeorgiaHigh School Association rule that makes players ineligible to playany other high school sports if they participate in an all-stargame during the academic school year.
Florida has a similar rulebut it only jeopardizes eligibility in the same sport.Injuries remain a serious concern of both college coaches andthe game's organizers.
The University of Florida had a particularlybad week this year as two of its signees suffered major injuries.John Capel of Brooksville, Fla., generally considered the topreceiver prospect in the country, dislocated an elbow in practiceand had to have surgery to repair nerve damage.
Albany's (Ga.)Chucky Marks suffered a knee injury in Saturday night's game.
As aresult, both players may have to sit out their freshman seasonswith the Gators.NEW YORK After almost eight decades of charges andcountercharges, investigations, debates, protests and tears, thequestion of whether Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti (or one ofthem) committed the crimes for which they were executed in August1927 remains in dispute.
Historical consensus seems to have beenreached, however, that their trial was marred by the biases of theperiod and by dubious prosecutorial tactics.Attention is rightly drawn to the nation's post-World War I Redscare, when radicals like Sacco and Vanzetti, Italian anarchists,were rounded up, beaten and deported.
The evidence against the two,arrested in a payroll robbery and murders in 1920 in Braintree,Mass., was contradictory; the prosecution played heavily on theirradical beliefs, and the judge reminded the jury of its duty to Godand country.In 1977 Michael Dukakis, then the governor of Massachusetts,issued a proclamation apologizing for the conduct of the trialwithout taking a position on the men's guilt or innocence.
Thatcombination of agnosticism toward the crime and indignation towardthe process reflects current historical opinion pretty well.In a bid to make computer networks as common in homes as theyare in offices, 11 high technology companies including IBM, Lucentand Compaq have teamed up to develop standards for systems thattransmit data at high speeds over the copper telephone wiringinside almost every house and apartment.The companies intend to announce the formation of the group,called the Home Phoneline Networking Alliance, Monday at theDigital Living Room conference in Laguna Hills, Calif.Prodded by the computer industry, the telephone and cabletelevision industries have been rushing to develop new ways to linkhomes to cyberspace at speeds that far exceed those possible usingtoday's common modems.The nation's large local phone carriers have joined with CompaqComputer Corp., Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp. in a group calledthe Universal ADSL Consortium in an attempt to deliver torrents ofdata over phone wires.
Many of the nation's largest cabletelevision companies have formed a venture called At Home to do thesame thing using cable systems.But those initiatives have done little to address how computersand other advanced electronic devices communicate within homes.
Theconsortium being announced Monday plans to use telephone wiring tocreate fast in-home networks.The group plans to publish its first technical standards in thethird quarter and expects its members to ship products based on thetechnology by the end of the year.Compaq, for instance, could include plug-in cards in itscomputers that allow users to make an in-home network simply byplugging computers into standard telephone jacks.The consortium expects its efforts to enable data-transmissionrates of up to one megabit a second.
That is more than 20 times thespeeds generally made possible by today's telephone modems but ismuch slower than the speeds used in modern office networks.Carpenter said the technology would allow people to use theirtelephones in the standard fashion even as the same wires carryInternet data between machines.Tony Grewe, an applications strategy manager for LucentTechnology Inc.'s microelectronics unit, said the group at Lucentthat was working with the new group was separate from the taskforce working with the ADSL consortium, but that the two groupsconsult regularly.Besides games, most people would seem to have little use for aquick in-home network if the home itself had no high-speed link tothe outside world.The core technology for the group's efforts is being provided bytwo small private companies, Tut Systems Inc., based in PleasantHill, Calif., and Epigram Inc., based in Sunnyvale, Calif. Theother members of the group are 3Com Corp., Advanced Micro DevicesInc., ATT Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., Intel and RockwellInternational.ATT is not in the local phone business in a major way, but itswireless unit is leading the company's involvement with the homenetworking consortium.
ATT has explored the use of wirelesstechnology to offer routine local phone service.
So far, thoseefforts have borne little fruit in the market.On the road in front of the barn, they had dumped two spikedmetal tracks from an old haying machine on the cobblestones toblock traffic.
Another group of men, most in motley camouflageuniforms, darted behind a barricade a few yards away.
They peeredout from behind the pile of old planks, tires, bricks and sacksfilled with dirt.Many have been lulled into believing that the curtain will neverclose on this heady period of their revolt.
Rebel leaders naivelyinsist that they can muster enough force with their light weaponryand poorly trained volunteers to defend towns and positions againsta mechanized assault by Yugoslav troops.On the hills and roads surrounding rebel-held areas, now as muchas 40 percent of the province, the government of Yugoslavia, ofwhich Serbia is one of two remaining republics, is positioninghulking tanks.
It also has sent armored personnel carriers andspider webs of green camouflage netting that mask huge howitzers aswell as mortar and sniper positions.The government troops are slowly strangling the rebelstrongholds, having seized the main road between Pec and Djakovicafrom the insurgents over the past few days.
The shattered housesalong the road, many with gaping holes, speak of fierce combat.Serbia, for its part, at times seems as oblivious as the rebelsto the reality of its position, apparently ignoring the likelylong-range impact of the fury provoked by its counterinsurgencysweeps, which have left over 300 people dead and caused 80,000people to be displaced from their homes since March.Since these assaults began, the ethnic Albanians who make up 90percent of the province's 2 million people have largely abandoned atactic of peaceful resistance in their drive for independence.War has a choreography that only its participants understand.Fighters, locked in an embrace, feel out the daily beat and rhythmuntil the set is shattered by a surge of violence.
The old order isthen replaced with another, just as ephemeral as the last.Such a dance is under way in Kosovo, where armed peasant farmersand other residents, joined by hundreds of rebels who have pickedup weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania, arefacing down 50,000 government soldiers and special police.In this village, about 40 miles southwest of Pristina, theprovincial capital, the men in the camouflage gear wear baseballcaps with red patches that show the black double-headed Albanianeagle and the initials UCK, the Albanian acronym for the rebelKosovo Liberation Army.The long, black snout of a captured 20 mm anti-aircraft canonsticks out from the little fort toward the deserted road, strewnwith rocks and branches, that meanders out of the village.The United States, in an effort to stay the hand of YugoslavPresident Slobodan Milosevic, has threatened NATO interventionunless the soldiers are withdrawn from the province andnegotiations with a moderate ethnic Albanian leader, IbrahimRugova, are resumed.It increasingly appears, however, that Milosevic is biding histime until he sees an opportune moment to strike to wipe out therebellion.
That moment may not be far away, given the bickeringwithin NATO over what to do in Kosovo with some nations, but notthe United States, saying that intervention requires U.N.authorization.But a push to wipe out the rebel zones would be likely to forcethe insurgents to move into the hills, to build smaller, morefluid, bands and to widen the scope of the war perhaps bringingit into Pristina.
It would also create scores of new martyrs, thefuse that ignited the current rebellion.It was the earlier crackdown on the ethnic Albanian separatiststhat led hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of ethnic Albanians whohad left Kosovo seeking new opportunities to quit their jobs inGermany and Switzerland over the past several weeks and to travelto northern Albania to join the rebel movement.
Any prolonged waralso has the danger of drawing Albania, already a staging area andsanctuary for the rebels, and Macedonia, which also has a restiveethnic Albanian minority, into the conflict.In Junik, Maloku, an architect wearing a green ammunitions pouchstrapped over his sweater and carrying an AK-47 assault rifle,stood with a half dozen of his neighbors under the peaked barn roofwith its dark oak beams.
The tractors, wooden rakes, buckets, emptyanimal stalls and faint scent of machine oil gave to the coolinterior a sense of bucolic peace that helped soften the signs ofbrutality outside.
On the stucco walls of the house that faces thebarn are splotch marks from shrapnel explosions and drill-likeholes from sniper bullets.The red tiled roofs of a housing complex, now being used as aYugoslav government military base, are visible through the canopyof trees less than half a mile away.The base was being reinforced Saturday with 120 special policein blue helmets and flak jackets.
The police were arriving croucheddown in the back of flatbed trucks with heavy metal plating on thesides.
The rust-colored plates with rectangular gun slits, wereapparently welded onto the trucks to protect the police fromambushes by the guerrillas who control swathes of territory in theborder region with Albania and who have held Junik for three weeks.Gani Shehu, 31, a stocky lawyer, is the president of the localDemocratic League of Kosovo, the ethnic Albanian party in Kosovoled by the Rugova, who advocates peaceful change.
Shehu spoke aboutthe conflict Saturday as he sat in his living room.
A neighborwhose mother had been killed by a Serb shell squatted over a small,blue propane burner heating Turkish coffee in a small red metalpitcher.Shehu spoke about the attack on May 29, when Serb forces droppedgrenades and mortars on Junik for 12 hours, sending the 12,000villagers along with 6,000 people there who had been driven outof neighboring villages fleeing into the woods.
A half dozenpeople were killed and scores were injured.The attack, like most along the border, was apparently intendedto depopulate the border villages and to form an empty buffer zoneto thwart the smuggling of weapons and fighters from Albania.Serb helicopters, while never firing directly on the frightenedgroups of villagers taking shelter in the trees, hovered overheadafter the attacks and let off machine gun bursts near the clustersof people, those in Junik said.With most of its houses damaged and its streets empty save forimprovised log barricades and debris from the shelling, Junik looksdesolate and still.
Men with assault rifles flit in and out of theshadows, appearing in doorways of broken homes and then backingaway into the gloomy interiors.
A handful of elderly people whocould not make the 15-hour trek over the mountains and two Yugoslavarmy deserters from Montenegro the other remaining republic inYugoslavia live with the outgunned band in this beleagueredredoubt.The Serb snipers, to keep those bottled up in the town on edge,fire off a few rounds a day.
There is desultory mortar fire.
Thefields are untended because the farmers fear being exposed to thesnipers.
Electricity and phone service have been cut, and food isgrowing scarce.The noose is being tightened around the town.
Serb troops minedthe routes leading from Junik into Albania a week ago, thevillagers said.
They said that the troops have looted and burnedfive neighboring villages Molic, Brovina, Ponosevac, Popovac andMorina in the past few days.Those in the village appeared not fully aware of the weight ofthe Serb firepower that awaited them up the road.
They vowed theywould not flee.
When asked if they were members of the guerrillamovement they were hesitant and unsure.Billows of black smoke spiraled into a crystal blue sky from alumberyard that had been set alight not far from the Serbpositions.
A Serb helicopter flew toward Junik and then turned in awide arc toward the border, the thumping of its blades graduallyfading away.When asked what his wife said before she left for Albania helowered his eyes.And he has a Web site dedicated to the 16-year-old Russianbeauty to prove it.The best example of the Kournikova Internet boom is on the ringof Kournikova sites(!bold!http://www.bomis.com/rings/Kournikova!off!).
Among the linksto 59 homemade tributes are titles such as:LENS, France When it ended with Jurgen Klinsmann surrounded ona stretcher and Lothar Matthaus alone in the record books, theGermans were the happier team, but it was not because they hadbeaten the Yugoslavs.It was because they had done what German teams were doing longbefore East and West came together.
They had rousted themselvesfrom a funk and rallied: scoring two goals in the final 16 minutesto salvage a 2-2 draw and preserve their share of first place inGroup F.This was a gripping match, full of odd bounces and odd plottwists, but once again in this World Cup, violence outside thestadium shifted some of the focus off events inside the stadium.
AFrench policeman and a Brazilian reporter were injured seriously inseparate incidents involving Germans who were in Lens for the game.The policeman reportedly was hit in the back of the head with aniron bar and was hospitalized in critical condition.Two German fans also were sentenced to short prison sentencesafter clashing with police in Paris on June 15 before Germanyplayed its opening match against the United States.The last team to play the Americans in this tournament will bethe Yugoslavs, who can be sure of advancing to the second roundwith another draw.
The Americans have no chance of advancing aftertheir emotional loss Sunday night against Iran.The Germans actually pressed harder than the Yugoslavs at thestart Sunday, but they quickly lost their enthusiasm when Mijatovicstruck a ball with his right foot in the direction of the Germangoal.
His 19-year-old teammate Dejan Stankovic sprinted toward it,one step ahead of Jeremies, the fleet German midfielder.
Stankovicextended his leg.
The ball brushed past it, deflected off the kneeof disoriented German goalkeeper Andreas Kopke and ricocheted offthe far post, bouncing off Jeremies' upper chest into the goal.Though Stankovic appeared to play more of a passive than activerole in that complicated process, the gifted teen-ager was awardedhis first and probably not last World Cup goal.
The Yugoslavs wereon their way to dominating the opening half in style, and if notfor some fine saves from Kopke, they might have increased theirlead in a hurry.At halftime, German coach Berti Vogts substituted 37-year-oldLothar Matthaus for Dietmar Hamann in midfield.
Matthaus was notsupposed to be part of this German team at age 37, but after starsweeper Mathias Sammer was unable to recover from a series ofinjuries, Vogts swallowed his pride and reached out to theoutspoken veteran he once had vowed would never play for him again.Matthaus' appearance made him the first man to play in 22 games inthe World Cup finals and it drew him even with former Mexicangoalkeeper Antonio Carbajal, the only other player to appear infive World Cup finals.But drawing even with Yugoslavia, not Carbajal, was the moreurgent objective, and it didn't help Germany's chances when thenormally reliable Kopke mishandled a low, well-struck shot fromstriker Darko Kovacevic.
The ball slipped through his arms andbounced in front of the charging Yugoslav captain Dejan Stankovic,who joyfully gave his team a 2-0 lead in the 54th minute.Vogts, thoroughly underwhelmed by his players' performance,would substitute twice more, and in the 74th minute, one of thosesubstitutes, Michael Tarnat, unleashed a long free kick thatdeflected off Mihajlovic's right leg and into the goal.
Suddenly,the urgency and intensity missing from Germany's play since theopening minutes was back, and on a corner kick in the 80th minute,Bierhoff rose high between two defenders and headed home theequalizer.Six minutes later, Klinsmann rose high in a German wall and tooka Mihajlovic free kick in the side of the chest.
He dropped to theground and stayed there in a semi-conscious state as team doctorssprinted to his side.
The game would continue, but Klinsmann's rolein it had ended.It was a day for German recoveries, and though they still sharethe lead in Group F, the Germans did not share the Yugoslavs' painas they left Lens and began preparing to face Iran.Austria, which is 78 percent Catholic, is a prosperous countryswept by the kind of religious disaffection and dissent that runsthroughout Western Europe and the United States and that that isthe bane of John Paul II's pontificate in his twilight years.On his three-day visit, which ended Sunday, the pope's threeMasses were eagerly attended by believers, but the crowds weresmall and restrained compared with the vast and jubilant seas ofhumanity that greeted him on recent trips to Nigeria and Cuba, poornations hungry for the solace and attention of the bishop of Rome.As he delivered his homilies, he made clear that his oppositionto issues dear to reformers has not wavered.
And perhaps mostemphatically, he told the bishops of Austria, who are also dividedalong ideological lines, to shape up.The pope's remarks followed a highly public comment by onebishop that had already riveted Austrian Catholics.
At a massSaturday in the small town of St. Poelton, its conservative bishop,Kurt Krenn, departed from his prepared text and offered a prayerfor Cardinal Hans Hermann Groer, who was forced to resign in 1995amid allegations that he sexually molested young men in a monastery20 years ago.The scandal, which re-erupted in January after a priest madefresh charges, was so politically stormy among Catholics thatGroer's successor, Schoenborn, announced in April that the chargeswere true and apologized for Groer's actions.Krenn, however, remained loyal to Groer, and dismissed thepriest who made his own accusation of sexual abuse by Groer public.Demonstrators outside the mass Saturday carried black balloons tosignal their unhappiness with Krenn.Even Austrians who are not actively practicing Catholics havefollowed the Groer affair and Krenn's prayer for him in St. Poeltonwas mentioned on most newscasts here.Schoenborn, who is as conservative as the pope on doctrinalissues, has sought to make peace within Austria's church byengaging in dialogue with Catholic dissidents.
He invited leadersof one of the more prominent lay groups, We Are the Church, to sitin the VIP section at Sunday's outdoor mass on Vienna's Heroes'Square.
They thanked him for the invitation but declined to attendin protest against what they view as the pope's resistance toreforms.One liberal Catholic who did attend was the Rev.
Eduard Fischer,the priest who was dismissed from his parish duties by Krenn forpublicly airing his charges against Groer.
He has since came as areporter for the dissident Catholic newsletter Ja, or yes.Then and now, Bob Bennett seemed less interested in thesematters.
And politically, he has never been comfortable declaringhimself, though he has represented Democrats and Republicans,including former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger.These days Bob Bennett is working on fending off Ms. Jones'appeal of her case and fighting efforts by the independent counselto get top Clinton aides to testify about the president'srelationship with Monica Lewinsky, a former White House intern.In his own downtown office, Bill Bennett is initially morecautious than his brother, and still shows signs of the shy childhe was, mostly avoiding eye contact.He has spent many months saying Clinton should resign if he hadan affair with Ms. Lewinsky.
But only a few weeks ago, he said, hedecided to write a book about how the whole mess had loweredAmerica's moral standards, after reading a newspaper article abouta group of Republicans in Naperville, Ill.Harvard's financial aid office was open 12 hours a day six daysa week in April for families to discuss their packages.Students from lower-income groups, including members ofminorities, who are not at the top of their classes, may berejected because of their inability to afford the tuition, whilestudents of similar qualification but higher income will get in.The trend is also visible at some state institutions.
This pastseason, some state legislatures, including those of Kentucky,Florida and Louisiana, which control state university budgets,moved toward merit aid in an effort to keep the most promisingstudents in their states.The move toward greater use of merit scholarships, particularlyat a time of record stock portfolios, has some scholars assertingthat colleges are backing away from traditional responsibilities.The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following generalstories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs ofMonday, June 22 and thereafter.
For questions about stories,contact William Toren at the Daily News, (818) 713-3702.LONDON He is a fan of pop music and fast food, an avid swimmerand tennis player.
He prefers action adventure books to novels andeven likes the swallow-tail coat, starched collar and stripedtrousers he must wear at Eton.Sixteen years old Sunday, the winsome young man destined to beking of England says that the only uncomfortable part of his lifeis dealing with the shrieking teen-age girls who swoon at hissight.With his exams at Eton finished, Prince William celebrated hisbirthday Sunday out of public view with friends at an undisclosedlocation and spoke to his family on the telephone.But aides to his father, Prince Charles, at St. James' Palace,are seeking to balance the young man's need for privacy with thewidespread interest in him.
They published a mass of details abouthis adolescence culled from official records and answers he gave towritten questions from The Press Association, Britain's domesticnews agency.What emerged was a portrait of a youth mature beyond his age butwith the normal enthusiasms and tastes of a teen-ager intact aftera tumultuous year that forced him into a public role long beforeanyone intended.Publication of the managed information was seen as a reward tothe British press for its adherence to Press Complaint Commissionrules made more strict to shield Prince William and his brother,Prince Harry, after the death of their mother, Diana, princess ofWales, in an automobile crash in Paris last Aug. 31.Next in line to the throne after his father, William attractedenormous sympathy and admiration by the dignity and fortitude ofhis participation in Diana's funeral.
He accepted flowers frommourners outside Buckingham Palace with remarkable composure andthen strode solemnly behind her coffin in the procession from St.James' Palace to Westminster Abbey.Under the tightened press guidelines, the two boys can bephotographed only at carefully rationed arranged occasions, usuallywith their father.It was one of those moments, a ski trip to Vancouver, BritishColumbia, last March, that alerted the palace to what a pin-up the6-foot-1-inch prince with the shock of blond hair, blue eyes anddownward-looking shy smile so reminiscent of his mother has becometo teen-age girls.
Hundreds of them gave him a weeping andscreaming rock star greeting as he playfully tried on a redCanadian team Winter Olympics beret and grinned in embarrassment.He professed to like school, a marked contrast to his father'sloathing of the ascetic Gordonstoun school in Scotland that heattended at the same age.
William plans to focus on geography,biology and history of art, and has not decided yet what universityhe will apply to.
His father studied at Trinity College, Cambridge.He said he longs to go on safari in Africa, something he missedout on last year when his father and brother visited South Africa.He enjoys writing letters and keeps in touch with his family byphone.
Besides tennis, sports he has excelled at include swimming,soccer, polo, rugby and team clay-pigeon shooting.Prince William will probably be spared the kind of embarrassmentsuffered by his father, who was derided by the press when hewandered into a Highland pub near his prep school, bellied up tothe bar and ordered a cherry brandy.William is not expected to take up his formal royal duties untilafter his graduation from college six years from now, and the pressis bound by the code of nonintrusion until then.
But the Guardianspeculated this weekend that the timing might end up differently.For the last year, Kocher's four-man consulting firm in SanFrancisco has kept big credit-card companies and banks on edge bysharing details of his discovery of a way to break into the newestversion of smart cards credit-card size devices that contain atiny computer chip and can be used for a variety of purposesincluding storing so-called digital cash.Although Kocher's intent has been to warn the industry and sellit possible solutions, his expertise in the hands of thieves,counterfeiters or impostors could compromise the securitysafeguards of smart cards, which are coming into widespread use inthe United States and Europe.The cards are at the center of the plans by the banking andcredit-card industries to cut costs and improve customerconvenience by replacing conventional magnetic-stripe cards withones that not only can act as a debit or automated-teller-machinecard but can also be loaded with digital cash that would functionas legal tender wherever merchants have digital-cash decoderterminals.Kocher and his colleagues were able to crack the digital codedesigned to make the smart cards tamperproof by drawingmathematical inferences from the fluctuating electrical powerconsumption of the chip.Though already in wide use as bank cards in Europe, smart cardsin the United States have been mainly used so far for controllingaccess to buildings and protecting against fraudulent use of newtypes of cellular telephones.
But U.S. banks have begunexperimenting with the cards, as Chase Manhattan is doing in a testof Mastercard International's Mondex system on the Upper West Sideof New York City.Banks trust that the computer chips embedded in tamper-resistantpackaging will act like a virtual branch office, dispensing moneyand crediting accounts to the right people.
But if someone couldbreak through the card's defense, then that person could conductfraudulent transactions, load counterfeit digital cash onto thecards or create various other forms of mischief.So even as smart-card executives seek to play down the threatposed by Kocher's discovery, and they stress that no knownbreak-ins of his sort have occurred in the real world, the industryknows it must continuously improve smart-card software andhardware.In fact, some other industry executives expect it to takeperhaps two years before there will be smart cards and relatedhardware that will be impervious to Kocher's type of attack.Kocher said he had approached the smart-card industry last yearwith the details of his discovery because he knew that criminalsmight also use the same tricks.
But he said that he did notpublicize his findings, so that the industry would have time toadopt defenses, including techniques for which he has filed forpatents and which he is now licensing to the companies.Kocher's company, Cryptography Research, analyzes and testscomputer-security hardware and software for many of the leadingcomputer companies.
His discoveries of flaws in supposedly securetechnologies have drawn attention in the past as in 1995, when hefound that he could break into smart cards by simply timing howlong it took them to process data.In the case of this newly disclosed smart-card problem, Kocherand his colleagues found that the cards' consumption of electricalpower could disclose vital information about the secret key thatprotects the money or other data on the chip.By watching the monitor of an oscilloscope, a device thatmeasures the power use on a screen similar to the way a cardiacmonitor displays a patient's heart action, Kocher's team was ablein some cases to use the electrical pattern from a singletransaction to decipher the key to the code.
In other cases, theywere forced to use more sophisticated statistical techniques toanalyze the results from as many as 1,000 transactions.Kocher said his team had spent at least as much time looking forsolutions as it had in identifying the security flaw.
A possibleremedy involves masking the transaction in digital noise by addingmeaningless random calculations that would consume random amountsof current.Another possible solution, which according to Mastercardofficials is being incorporated in the latest version of its Mondexsmart-card software, is to vary the order of the operations in thesoftware to make it more difficult to identify patterns in theconsumption of power.A banking-industry goal with smart cards is to cut costs byeliminating the need for central approval of a debit or credittransaction.
By some estimates, the marginal costs for clearing asmart-card transaction are well under a penny.
Credit-cardtransactions, however, typically require a long-distance computernetwork and a large central database for examining each deal, andthe transaction eventually means billing a customer and cashing thepayment checks.These steps add up to 25 cents a transaction, on average,compared with about a penny for a smart-card transaction, in whichall the authorization information and even the money itself canbe contained on the card's chip.Fletcher, of Mastercard's Mondex, contends that including anysort of central control runs counter to the purpose of a smart card giving customers the ability to use the money on a card just likecash.More than 1,500 riot police have been deployed ahead of Monday'sWorld Cup soccer match between England and Romania.
Bars have beenordered to close at midnight.
Open-air concerts have been calledoff.Certainly, the measures looked draconian on Sunday.
Even anEnglish mascot, a man dressed up as a lion, looked docile enough,padding around central Toulouse with all the menace of a poodle.The main ambition of most fans seemed to be to burn as red aspossible as fast as possible while singing as out of tune aspossible.There is the sun, of course, particularly scorching whencombined with alcohol.
There is high unemployment, especially amongNorth African immigrants and their children.
There is strongsupport for the xenophobic National Front party.
And now there isthe spark of soccer, at once religion, ritual, and, for some,surrogate war.Police reports now suggest that there was indeed someprovocation of the English in Marseilles from the large populationthere of Tunisian or North African descent.
As the arrest Sunday ofdozens of German fans in Lens showed, the English are by no meansalone.
It is sometimes hard to know where soccer thuggery meetsplain vandalism.The tournament also leaves plenty of room for good old-fashionedbigotry.
Soccer, it was once said, is not a life-and-death matter;it is much more important that that.
Never mind Romania, severalEnglish fans said Sunday.
Just wait for the old rivals Argentinaor Germany and then the real action will start.TEHRAN, Iran After just a couple dramatic soccer goals, one ofthe most restrictive countries on earth could not be restrained.Throngs of Iranians millions by some unofficial estimates took to the streets and clogged them at 1:30 a.m., blowing horns,dancing and chanting immediately after their national team's 2-1defeat of the United States in the World Cup soccer tournament inLyon, France.At 3:30 a.m. in Tehran, a city where it is usually difficult tofind a restaurant open after midnight, car horns were stillblaring.The fever over the game illustrated the extremes of Iran'sculture in flux, where women can still be arrested unless theycover their hair with scarves, where alcohol is prohibited andwhere the national image centers on its mantle as a country for thepersecuted downtrodden.Earlier, at a community center in an upscale north Tehranneighborhood, about 80 fans became irate when police entered andshut off the televised game broadcast that was taking place on abig screen.Organizers of the showing, after ten minutes of soccer actionhad been missed, convinced the police to let the broadcastcontinue.
They then flashed lights on and off as they implored thecrowd to hush whenever cheering got loud, warning that the policecould return any minute.Minutes after the victory, however, smiling police leaned ontheir cars cross-armed, watching youths climb tall street lights incelebration.
Thousands of police had been deployed across the city,but there were no immediate reports that any interfered with thecelebrations.They have closely followed the cautious offers of dialogue thattheir new moderate President Mohammad Khatami has exchanged withPresident Bill Clinton.One woman, pressing the limits by joining a spontaneous all-maleparade, shouted her thanks to the bemused and for once not feared police.But generally, the jubilation was more about a love for soccerand a needed emotional release in what can be a sterile society.The hard-fought first round battle in Lyon was more than just aconfrontation between two global foes.
Rather, the victory provideda chance for Iranians to celebrate a slow emergence from worldisolation and to test freedoms cautiously advocated by acharismatic new president.Earlier Sunday, a the second day of the work week here, manyIranians were disappointed to see their hard-line parliamentimpeach one of the key reformers in the cabinet of PresidentKhatami.
It was the latest maneuver in the struggle between thecountry's conservative and moderate factions.But, the Iranian soccer team, the first to make the World Cupsince the Islamic revolution in 1979, won the day with its triumph.The street celebrations were the third in just over a year others were held when the team qualified for the tournament andafter the election of Khatami.The night began calmly.
Traffic was heavy as people prepared forthe game and it seemed that boys were playing soccer in makeshiftgoals on nearly every vacant lot or alley.Though police did not take a high-profile on the street, theyhad kept most community centers from showing the game and mostwatched it at home.At the north Tehran center where the game was shown, thoseattending were not permitted to carry cameras to record thegathering, apparently to discourage excessive celebration in theevent of a victory.TEHRAN, Iran After just a couple dramatic soccer goals, one ofthe most restrictive countries on earth could not be restrained.Throngs of Iranians millions by some unofficial estimates took to the streets and clogged them at 1:30 a.m., blowing horns,dancing and chanting immediately after their national team's 2-1defeat of the United States in the World Cup soccer tournament inLyon, France.At 3:30 a.m. in Tehran, a city where it is usually difficult tofind a restaurant open after midnight, car horns were stillblaring.The fever over the game illustrated the extremes of Iran'sculture in flux, where women can still be arrested unless theycover their hair with scarves, where alcohol is prohibited andwhere the national image centers on its mantle as a country for thepersecuted downtrodden.Earlier, at a community center in an upscale north Tehranneighborhood, about 80 fans became irate when police entered andshut off the televised game broadcast that was taking place on abig screen.Organizers of the showing, after ten minutes of soccer actionhad been missed, convinced the police to let the broadcastcontinue.
They then flashed lights on and off as they implored thecrowd to hush whenever cheering got loud, warning that the policecould return any minute.Minutes after the victory, however, smiling police leaned ontheir cars cross-armed, watching youths climb tall street lights incelebration.
Thousands of police had been deployed across the city,but there were no immediate reports that any interfered with thecelebrations.They have closely followed the cautious offers of dialogue thattheir new moderate President Mohammad Khatami has exchanged withPresident Bill Clinton.One woman, pressing the limits by joining a spontaneous all-maleparade, shouted her thanks to the bemused and for once not feared police.But generally, the jubilation was more about a love for soccerand a needed emotional release in what can be a sterile society.The hard-fought first round battle in Lyon was more than just aconfrontation between two global foes.
Rather, the victory provideda chance for Iranians to celebrate a slow emergence from worldisolation and to test freedoms cautiously advocated by acharismatic new president.Earlier Sunday, a the second day of the work week here, manyIranians were disappointed to see their hard-line parliamentimpeach one of the key reformers in the cabinet of PresidentKhatami.
It was the latest maneuver in the struggle between thecountry's conservative and moderate factions.But, the Iranian soccer team, the first to make the World Cupsince the Islamic revolution in 1979, won the day with its triumph.The street celebrations were the third in just over a year others were held when the team qualified for the tournament andafter the election of Khatami.The night began calmly.
Traffic was heavy as people prepared forthe game and it seemed that boys were playing soccer in makeshiftgoals on nearly every vacant lot or alley.Though police did not take a high-profile on the street, theyhad kept most community centers from showing the game and mostwatched it at home.At the north Tehran center where the game was shown, thoseattending were not permitted to carry cameras to record thegathering, apparently to discourage excessive celebration in theevent of a victory.WASHINGTON Five months after investigators began exploringallegations of a sexual relationship between President Clinton andMonica Lewinsky, new lawyers for the former White House intern havereturned to the same standoff with independent counsel KennethStarr that her previous attorneys confronted.Details of the negotiations between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky'slegal team, which appeared Sunday in The Washington Post and wereconfirmed by people with knowledge of the investigation, suggestthe two sides are still far from an agreement that would lead toher testimony.Starr still insists that Ms. Lewinsky agree to plead guilty tosome offense relating to an affidavit she submitted in the sexualharassment suit brought by Paula Jones against Clinton.
That suithas since been dismissed.Ms.
Lewinsky's new lawyers, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein,longtime members of Washington's circle of elite attorneys, insiston complete immunity for Ms. Lewinsky in exchange for testimonythat she had sex with Clinton.
This deal is exactly what herprevious lawyer, William Ginsburg, had sought from Starr.The negotiating distance between Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's newlawyers is likely to give some solace to Clinton and his legal teamat the White House.
While White House officials were being carefulSunday to say nothing in public about these newest indications thatStarr is still a long way from a deal with Ms. Lewinsky, they madeno secret of the fact that they were pleased.A person with knowledge of the strategy of Ms. Lewinsky'sdefense team said the major uncertainty concerns what evidenceStarr may have collected in months of grand jury testimony, whichcontinues this week.Starr has been trying to find holes in Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit,and may be able to establish that she failed to mention somemeetings with the president.
He is especially concerned withmeetings that may have taken place as the Jones case gainedattention around Christmas, just ahead of the long Saturdayafternoon in which Clinton was himself deposed in the case.For the deposition, lawyers for Ms. Jones asked the president atlength about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky whichsubsequently prompted the president to call in his secretary, BettyCurrie, and lead her through a conversation about her own memories.Ms.
Currie was Ms. Lewinsky's main conduit as she tried to reachthe president and send him gifts and a tape.Ms.
Lewinsky may be seeking to strike a deal in which she admitsto having had a sexual relationship with the president, but deniesthat there was any effort by the White House to alter hertestimony.But on Capitol Hill, both Republicans and Democrats have saidthat an allegation of an affair, without related charges of perjuryor of an effort to alter testimony, is unlikely to lead toimpeachment charges.Moreover, additional descriptions of some of the key evidence inthe case 20 hours of secretly tape-recorded conversations inwhich Ms. Lewinsky describes the nature of her relationship withthe president suggest that Starr may have difficulty proving thatClinton or his friend Vernon Jordan sought to influence Ms.Lewinsky's testimony.The latest issue of U.S. News World Report describes two hoursof previously undescribed recordings and says they contain noreference to any effort by Clinton or Jordan to have Ms. Lewinskylie about her relationship with the president.The tapes are described by the magazine as bolstering the viewthat Ms. Lewinsky was infatuated with the president but had beencut off from access to him by autumn of last year.Clinton's allies have long asserted that they expected therevelation of further material from the tapes secretly made byLinda Tripp, a former colleague of Ms. Lewinsky's at the Pentagon,to be exculpatory.That might not be far off, at least in the boxing world: Duva,76, seems to be everywhere doing everything even though most of hispeers are long retired.In a career that has spanned more than a half-century, he hasfought, trained, managed and promoted.
And he's done itsuccessfully he's worked in some capacity with dozens ofchampions and in a colorful manner all his own.Last week, he joined the ranks of the greats in the sport: Hewas elected to the International Boxing Hall of Fame.The son of Italian immigrants grew up in poverty in Paterson,N.J., about 10 miles outside New York City.
Between myriad jobs andschool, he had already begun fighting at around 12 years old inback rooms of restaurants and bars and had a short, undistinguishedprofessional career.
However, his niche was outside the ring.At 16, after driving a truck all day to help make ends meet athome, he would spend every free evening at Stillman's Gym in NewYork.
There, he would watch some of the world's best fighters workout but pay particular attention to the trainers and schmooze withthe managers.Since then, he has worked with such title holders as EvanderHolyfield and Pernell Whitaker and currently handles rising starFernando Vargas of Oxnard.His family's promotional firm, Main Events, also is one of themost successful boxing enterprises in the world.
The family's firstbig break was acquiring a piece of Leon Spinks in 1978 the yearhe beat and then lost to Muhammad Ali and promoted the first RayLeonard-Thomas Hearns fight in 1981.
It has been a major playersince.Duva has been particularly successful in signing and cultivatingU.S.
Olympians.
Main Events landed four gold-medal winners Whitaker, Mark Breland, Meldrick Taylor and Tyrell Biggs andHolyfield from the 1984 team.Most significant, he lost three people very dear to him: Formerheavyweight champion Rocky Marciano, his close friend, was killedin a plane crash in 1969; his wife, Enes, died of multiplesclerosis in 1986; and his son Dan died of brain cancer in 1996.However, he has remained an always-positive, high-energy,laugh-a-minute person who is a delight to be around.He loves to tell stories and people love to listen, whether thetales are true or fantasy.And there are the more poignant stories, such as when Holyfieldknocked out Buster Douglas to win the heavyweight title hisgreatest moment in boxing.He had always told himself that if one of his fighters ever wonthe heavyweight title, he'd dedicate it to Marciano.And Duva's stories and humor aren't reserved for a select few:He seems to have time for anyone and everyone in spite of hishectic schedule.He won't hold back when he has something to say.
For example, hedoesn't think Oscar De La Hoya is as good as many believe and saysit openly.And he remains a tough guy who won't back down from a scrap inspite of a heart attack in 1979.
In the melee that followed theRiddick Bowe-Andrew Golota fight in July of 1996, Duva was in themiddle of the fray and ended up in the hospital after slumping tothe canvas.Still, Duva is a people person if there ever was one.
He lovespeople and they love him, a key to his success.No one knows this more than his fighters, to whom he'spassionately devoted.
So many have become part of the Main Eventsand Duva family.Mismatch?
: Rafael Ruelas will be a significant underdog when hefaces Kostya Tszyu in a title-elimination bout on Aug. 15.Many observers have rolled their eyes at the prospect of thematchup.
Prevailing wisdom says Ruelas, with 55 fights, hasdeteriorated as a fighter and couldn't possibly contend withTszyu's skill and power.Well, if anyone can pull a surprise under these dauntingcircumstances, it's Ruelas, who rose from two knockdowns to beatFreddie Pendleton and win the IBF lightweight title in 1994.When John Sykes took over as president of the cable channel VH1in 1994, he had a theory:The channel started in 1985 with the purpose of staving offcompetition for MTV.
That year, Ted Turner had started a competingmusic channel, so MTV Networks offered VH1 free to cable operators,killing off the threat.
But the channel's identity as a separatemusic network was never firmly established.In the four years since Sykes took over, VH1 has found a formulathat has significantly increased its ratings and driven up profits.Indeed, VH1 has the highest concentration of advertisers' mostdesirable viewers, those 18 to 49.
As a result, advertisers fromAmerican Express to Lexus have added VH1 to their buying plans.Indeed, the United States' largest cable operator,Tele-Communications Inc., had already dumped VH1 from more than onemillion homes to accommodate several channels in which it owned afinancial interest, including Fox News, Animal Planet and Home andGarden.
Fortunately, Sykes said, VH1, with its new adult-musicformat, had managed to build up some loyal fans by then, both inthe television audience and in the music industry.The reason this somewhat startling development can be true isthat neither CBS, ABC nor Fox earned much money if any thisyear.
So the $42.5 million in profit for VH1 for 1998, as estimatedby Paul Kagan Associates, looks good by comparison.
The results forMTV shows the potential for a cable channel, with the channelmaking about $250 million during the same period.But VH1 is looking good by comparison in several areas,including its overall appeal to viewers between 18 and 49, thefavorite group of most advertisers.
According to Nielsen Mediaresearch, VH1 has the highest concentration of those viewers about 88 percent of its viewers fall in that range in all ofcable.Sykes sees VH1's growing success as confirmation of his theoryabout how the generation of music fans who grew up in the 1960s and'70s refused to relinquish their proprietary interest in music.President Clinton fits the description of a baby boomer with acontinuing passion for music, Sykes said.
He has several personalletters from the president attesting to his interest in thechannel's programming.
(The president was especially taken by aseries of specials VH1 did on the 20th anniversary of the death ofElvis Presley, Sykes said.
)Even though their rotted shoes are falling off them and they areliving on dried corn and pumpkin leaves they carry 12 miles fromhome, the black squatters on Daskop Farm are being extraordinarilycareful of the white owner's property.
They want the farm theysay it is their ancestral land, and can even point out a stone theysay their great-great-grandmothers ground corn on.
But right nowthey are not willing even to walk across one of his fallow fields.In the endless war over land that began when whites seized thecountry 120 years ago and led to government promises in recentyears to redistribute the land to poor farmers, a new front openedthis week.
Hundreds of subsistence farmers from 20 villages in theSvosve communal area left the stony hills their families had beenpushed into and moved onto three farms in the Marondera area.An international outcry ensued, the currency plummeted andfarmers asserted that Cabinet ministers were plotting to stealtheir best farms for retirement villas.Since then, things have calmed down.
The government, farmers andinternational donors are talking.
About 200 farms available forsale were found, said David Hasluck, executive director of thelargely white Commercial Farmers Union, and about $800 million ingrants and loans from donors and banks has been offered on theconditions that the land is paid for, that it goes to poor peopleand that they are settled, not just dumped.For the people of Svosve, time ran out.
They said they pickedDaskop, Homepark and Igava farms from the government's list, andare asking for parts that are not being used.Daskop is an obviously well-run farm with a big irrigation pond,a husking plant, fields of seed corn growing under plastic tentsand cattle fattening on watered grass.
The squatters are living ona distant corner, keeping to themselves.
There has been no trouble,said Shaun David, the farm manager, and he's been told by the ownerto leave the squatters alone.The owners said they would use the sale proceeds to build newhousing and schools on their remaining farms, he said.
(On Sunday night, state television reported that the minister ofland thought he had convinced the squatters to go home until thegovernment can resettle them at its own pace.
)The squatters say the government has broken simple promises,like handouts of seed corn, and among their leaders are veterans ofthe 1980s war against white rule, whose association has recentlybecome so militant that it clashed with its former commander,Mugabe.If the squatters refuse to leave, the police may be asked tomove them.As politicians moan about interminable fund-raising demands topay for brutal attack commercials, consultants who run many oftheir campaigns and make many of the advertisements say it is nottheir fault, and they suggest that if anyone is to blame for publicdespair about the system, it is the news media.A survey of more than 200 political consultants made publicWednesday by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Pressand the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies atAmerican University found that the consultants were driven more bythe thrill of the competition than by ideology.
And, by anoverwhelming proportion, they believed that focusing on anopponent's weaknesses was perfectly acceptable.The survey offered a rare glimpse into the minds of politicalconsultants, who play enormous roles in packaging candidates andpreparing them to run for office but usually are overshadowed bythe politicians for whom they work.
This is the first time that somany leading consultants most have been involved in major racesover the last three election seasons have been interviewed forone survey.While more than half of those surveyed blamed the media fordiscouraging people from running for office because newsorganizations dwell too much on the personal lives of candidates,many consultants made clear that they were not particularlyimpressed by their own candidates.
Most consultants emphasized theimportance of their own roles and also criticized the public aspoorly informed and lacking sound judgment about issues.James Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional andPresidential Studies, said he was struck by the degree to whichconsultants refused to take responsibility for publicdisillusionment with the political process.The consultants seemed to play down the importance of thecandidates' political skills.
Asked for the most important factorin winning an election, the candidate's campaign ability rankedfourth after quality of the message, amount of money available andthe partisan makeup of the state or House district.While 71 percent of the Republican consultants characterized thequality of current House and Senate candidates as excellent orgood, only 39 percent of the Democratic consultants gave such highmarks to their candidates.
Democrats were far more likely thanRepublicans to say that the quality of congressional contenders haddiminished since they began working in politics.And while Democratic consultants were much more inclined thanRepublicans to favor reforming campaign finance, Democrats placedslightly more importance on making money as a motivation for theirworking on behalf of a candidate.Some of the responses in the survey, conducted by telephone fromNovember 1997 to March 1998, appeared a bit contradictory.Seventy-three percent of Democrats and 57 percent of Republicanssaid negative campaigns caused cynicism among voters.
But askedwhether the candidate or the consultant recommended going negative,83 percent of the Democrats said consultants, as did 77 percent ofthe Republicans.Nearly every respondent agreed that the news media devoted morecoverage to negative strategies, and 83 percent said voters weremore apt to respond to negative campaigning.
And nearly two-thirdssaid the way the news media reported on politics had a great dealto do with cynicism in the electorate.While most consultants said negative campaigning was notunethical, 41 percent said unethical conduct did sometimes occur.More than half said the most common unethical practice related tomisrepresenting an opponent's positions in advertising or incampaign oratory.WASHINGTON As President Clinton prepares to go to China thisweek, the central foreign policy drama in Washington is theincreasing congressional furor over the administration's engagementpolicy, in particular the sense that Clinton is damaging nationalsecurity in his eagerness to promote relations with Beijing.Congressional leaders, mostly Republican, argue that Clinton andthe executive branch are ignoring a pattern of Chinese exports ofdangerous nuclear, chemical and ballistic missile technology.
Themotive, the critics say, is that the White House wants to avoidimposing the sanctions that the law requires.The administration is also under new attack for authorizing theexport of commercial satellites for launching aboard Chineserockets, a process that may have provided technical details thatChina could use to improve the accuracy of its nuclear-tippedmissiles.Administration officials complain that Congress confuses votingon sanctions legislation with formulating a working policy onnonproliferation and that Congress sets even stricter requirementsfor Chinese behavior than international agreements do.
In essence,the officials complain, Congress does not allow the president totake a broader, more nuanced view of American national interests.They say the laws do not always provide the flexibility for theexecutive branch to accomplish the real ends of the legislation,less proliferation.The intense argument between the executive and legislativebranches reflects two approaches for dealing with China that arenot, at their core, partisan differences, although the renewedpresummit debate is intensely political.
Although Republicanleaders, including the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, R-Miss.,and Speaker Newt Gingrich are among Clinton's most vocal critics onChinese proliferation, Democratic senators including John Glenn ofOhio have long shared some of the same concerns.There is wide agreement that China has significantly improvedits record on nuclear, missile, chemical and biological exportssince the 1980s, when it advocated nuclear proliferation as a formof anticolonial equity.
China gave Pakistan the design for anuclear weapon and the materials to make it, and it shippedmissiles to the Middle East.
Prompting China to curtail suchexports has been its growing international maturity, combined withpressure and engagement from the United States, including the aptuse of sanctions.The attention from Republicans is on whether the Chinesegovernment illegally contributed to the Democratic Party and usedadvice from U.S. aerospace companies to improve its strategicmissiles.
But that feeds on the more longstanding and bitterargument over whether China remains a dangerous exporter to Iranand Pakistan and whether its behavior is improving throughengagement.In the broadest sense this is just another chapter in the debateabout the wisdom of an engagement policy with China that dates fromPresidents Nixon, Reagan and Bush.
Even Clinton, after criticizingengagement in the 1992 presidential campaign, embraced it as thebest way to influence Chinese behavior in the next century.One skeptic is Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment, whocomplains that under Clinton, engagement is uncritical.
Any actionto constrain Chinese behavior can be rationalized as harmful to thelarger goal of drawing China into international relationships thatmay moderate the government in Beijing, he said.The debates swirl over detailed findings about what might be incertain crates shipped by China to Pakistan in the early '90s andwhether they contained missiles or missile parts, as is widelybelieved but not proven.
And if the crates did contain missiles,were they Chinese M-11 missiles or another kind, and with whatrange?Similarly, what specific help has China provided Pakistan tobuild one certain factory in Rawalpindi, and is that factorydesigned to produce missiles and, if so, what kind and what range,and will they be considered Chinese or Pakistani?Those questions matter, because the different laws are specificabout what requires different sanctions.
The only missiles subjectto sanctions fall under the Missile Technology Control Regime,which covers those capable of carrying warheads of 500 kilograms,or 1,100 pounds, at least 300 kilometers, 190 miles.National security is never separate from domestic politics, asenior congressional staff member said, which is why presidentsfrom every party prefer not to receive perfect answers.TEHRAN, Iran In a high-stakes political battle filled withrecriminations and rage, Iran's Parliament voted Sunday to dismissone of the closest allies of Mohammad Khatami, the reform-mindedpresident.Parliament is controlled by Khatami's enemies.
Its action Sundayis the most serious political setback to his presidency since hislandslide victory 13 months ago as well as graphic proof ofKhatami's limited room for maneuver in Iran's Islamic Republic.The vote comes just just three days after Secretary of StateMadeleine Albright warmly praised Khatami and the reforms madesince he took office and held out the prospect of eventualnormalization of relations with Iran.The vote, 137-117 with 11 abstentions, came in a secret ballotafter several hours of impassioned debate in which Noori wasaccused of arrogantly dismissing officials who did not share hispolitics, fostering an unstable economic environment and puttingthe country's security at risk.The vote was as much an attack against Khatami as it was againstNoori, and it is part of a wider campaign led by conservativemembers of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to thepresident.The parliamentary session was broadcast live on radio and lateron television as millions of Iranian viewers were awaiting the livebroadcast of the World Cup soccer match between the United Statesand Iran at 11 p.m.
Both opponents and supporters of Noori steppedup to the lectern in the center of the parliamentary hall to airtheir views.Noori was reflecting the position voiced repeatedly by Khatamiand his supporters that what is at stake is nothing less than thesoul of the nation.
According to this line of thinking, unless Iranbecomes freer at home and more open to the outside world, it willlose the allegiance of the generation that has been born in the 19years since the monarchy was overthrown.But Khatami is fiercely opposed by those clerics and theirfollowers who believe that the core beliefs of the revolution arebeing sacrificed.Nateq-Noori had been the front-runner for president and lost inan upset to Khatami.Noori, 49, a mid-ranking cleric from Isfahan, has been anoutspoken proponent of Khatami's commitment to impose a rule of lawand has come under fire for issuing permits to allow groups toconduct peaceful demonstrations.Under the constitution, the country's spiritual leader,Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and not the president, controls thejudiciary, as well as the military, radio and television and theintelligence and security services.But Khatami has encouraged Noori to challenge decisions by thejudiciary particularly the arrest of Tehran Mayor GholamhosseinKarabaschi, who is on trial on corruption and embezzlement charges.The trial is broadcast on television in the evenings.Noori has also strongly supported Karabaschi and has openlycriticized the chief of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammed Yazdi,for arresting the mayor in April without telling Noori.In another sign that he had no intention of surrendering toParliament, Khatami appointed Mostafa Tajzadeh, a deputy ministerof the interior, as the acting minister.
Tajzadeh, a staunchsupporter of the president, was also criticized Sunday by somemembers of Parliament.WASHINGTON As Congress counts down the weeks before itadjourns for the November elections, the House and Senate aregetting down to the one task they are required to perform everyyear passing the 13 spending bills that keep the governmentrunning in the coming fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.The process is already showing the strains of the spendinglimits imposed by the balanced-budget agreement that Congressreached last year with the Clinton administration.Even though experts are forecasting a budget surplus of as muchas $64 billion this year, lawmakers are constrained by strictlimits that raise the amount for day-to-day government operationsby only one percent over last year's levels, to about $533 billion.But they also want to have something to brag about at home, and ayear of surpluses tempts many to reach into the treasury.The dynamics are further complicated by various ideologicaldivides between House and Senate Republicans, between both housesand the administration, and among House Republicans themselves.This blurs a sense of priorities, particularly as lawmakerscontinue to pursue their own pet projects and as Democrats seek toportray the Republicans as in complete chaos.There is no broad budget resolution to guide them, because theHouse and Senate cannot agree on one.
So lawmakers are using lastyear's resolution as a map, recognizing that they may have to makefurther cuts if a resolution is ever adopted.
Beyond that, Congresshas already approved a massive highway bill that many membersbelieve has used up the little discretionary money they had.Despite the unresolved conflicts, lawmakers must keep to atimetable that will have them discussing a half-dozen bills on thefloors of both the House and Senate this week.Obey said that while Republicans wanted to appear to be holdingthe line on spending, they had privately sought out Livingston andrequested 7,000 items that would raise total spending by $278million.The tension between the two goals was threatening to disrupt theHouse, but on Friday, House leaders quelled a mini-rebellion.Both conservatives and moderates were worried about thebudget-busting potential of a $4 billion appropriation that SpeakerNewt Gingrich and Livingston had put toward solving the year 2000computer problem, which could hobble the government at the end ofthe millennium.Livingston and Gingrich had cast the $4 billion as an emergency a designation that allows Congress to spend money without havingto seek equal cuts in some other program.
But many members railedat this as a gimmick.The leaders including Gingrich backed off the plan.
Theyagreed instead to put the $4 billion into a separate bill and tomake $4 billion in cuts elsewhere, although they did not say where.The process is fraught with such problems.
One of the mostdifficult is that in such a tight budget, spending for one lawmakerinvariably means cuts for another.For example, Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, urged a subcommittee lastweek not to agree to a $50 million proposal by Vice President AlGore to send pictures of Earth by satellite to computers 24 hours aday.
DeLay said private companies could pay for the pictures ifanyone wanted them.This prompted Obey to suggest that if Gore's project was notbeing financed because he was a Democrat, Democrats might highlightprojects sought by Gingrich, such as a $5.5 million designation forprograms at the American Museum of Natural History (Gingrich isfond of animals), and $15 million to buy land in the ChattahoocheeRiver watershed in Georgia, Gingrich's home state.At the same time, in another subcommittee, Rep. Sidney Yates,D-Ill., suggested eliminating the Chattahoochee project so thatIllinois could build a visitors' center in a national park honoringthe starting point of the Lewis and Clark expedition.Rep.
Ralph Regula, R-Ohio, defended the Chattahoochee landacquisition, saying it would prevent development of a majorrecreation area.
And he opposed the visitors' center for Illinois,saying he had requests from 18 members to finance centers in parksthroughout the country and that he could not pick one over theother.GRAND PRAIRIE, Texas Jerry Jeff Walker has wailed beer-soakedballads in the paddock garden.
Thousands of children have beenencouraged to wander through the petting zoo and family playground.And Friday night, Lone Star Park at Grand Prairie played host to 12of the nation's top riders in an unusual competition called theall-star jockey championship.Situated halfway between Dallas and Fort Worth, Lone Star is inthe second year of a remarkably successful launch into the troubledworld of thoroughbred racing.
The track's secret has been to offercustomers more than the simple prospect of betting on horses andinstead try to be as many things to as many people as possible.In that spirit came the jockey showdown, and before a capacitycrowd of 16,156 and a national television audience on ESPN2, ShaneSellers collected $25,000 and the championship for gaining the mostpoints over four races against 11 of his celebrated peers.There have been some encouraging signs recently in thoroughbredracing, which is coming off a thrilling Triple Crown campaign andfinally has a well-financed central-marketing office to help guidethe sport into an increasingly crowded marketplace.
And when thenewly formed National Thoroughbred Racing Association was lookingfor a vehicle to help create year-round awareness for its sport, itgravitated to this hustling Texas track and the second annualjockey championship.The jockey showcase is a departure for a regionalized industrythat has been slow to react to the onslaught of legalized gamblingand the sophisticated marketing techniques of other sports.Twenty-five years ago, horse racing accounted for 28 percent of alllegally wagered money.
In 1996, it totaled 7.8 percent, accordingto International Gaming and Wagering Business magazine.
Attendanceat the nation's tracks has declined from 54.4 million in 1991 to34.4 million today.But 80,162 people showed up at Belmont Park this month towitness Victory Gallop launch a stirring stretch drive and preventReal Quiet from completing the first Triple Crown in 20 years.
Itwas the second straight year that a horse had gone to Belmont witha chance to win the Triple Crown, comprising the Kentucky Derby,the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes.
And it was the secondstraight year that the bid ended with a narrow defeat at the wire.At the Lone Star jockey competition, those faces were among themost accomplished in the sport.
As a group, the 12 have won morethan 57,000 races for a staggering $1.56 billion in purses,including victories in 38 Triple Crown events and 51 Breeders' Cupraces.
But they also represented a cross-section of the sport'spotential appeal.They ranged in age from 25-year-old Marlon St. Julien, a blackrider who is becoming a star on the Texas-Louisiana circuit, to51-year-old Laffit Pincay, a legendary Panamanian who is pursuingBill Shoemaker's career record of 8,833 victories.Jerry Bailey, a three-time Eclipse award winner, and Mike Smithrepresented New York.
Pat Day, a five-time Preakness winner, andSellers came from Kentucky.
Canada's leading rider, Sandy Hawley,was also on hand.
Eddie Delahoussaye, Kent Desormeaux and ChrisMcCarron, with Stevens and Pincay, rounded out the Californiacontingent.
Krone, the most heralded female jockey, came from NewJersey.Lone Star Park conducted the program with both the new fan andthe educated gambler in mind north Texas possesses aknowledgeable fan base that for years traveled to nearby Arkansasand Louisiana to play the horses.
The jockeys were mobbed at apre-race autograph session, and bands blasted rock-and-roll betweenraces.The track even came up with a special wager available here andin 138 simulcast sites nationwide, allowing fans to bet on whichjockey would win the championship.
Sellers paid $14.80 for a $2 betto win the contest, and he and Krone together paid $150.80 for a $2exacta.It is that same combination of promotion and quality racing(Lone Star offers a daily average of $200,000 in purses) that hasattracted the country's top horses and trainers, including the bestin the stable of Bob Baffert, the trainer of both Silver Charm andReal Quiet.Those efforts have helped Lone Star Park average 9,700 in dailyattendance and improve its wagering handle by 5 percent over lastyear, to more than $3.1 million a day.
This has been accomplisheddespite the presence of four major league sports franchises andauto racing within a 35-mile radius of the track.All of which is perfectly plausible.
So what, Lewis Carroll asksin one of his books about symbolic logic, is the proper conclusion?By now the paradoxes of his life have entered literarymythology.
The mathematician Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, an Oxforddon, was reported to have been quite a dull lecturer.
But when headopted a pseudonym, he created exuberant fantasies for childrenthat leave the chalk board and lecture hall far behind.He was eminently respectable, a lifelong bachelor and a closefamily friend of the college's dean; but he was also almostobsessively infatuated with the dean's prepubescent daughters,particularly Alice Liddell, who, at the age of 10, was theinspiration for his Alice books.
And while in his diaries there aretraces of the stern moralist grimly recording his struggles withunspecified temptations, in his books he turned all moral lessonson their heads.Del Tredici treats this as a miniopera, exaggerating the scale,so it becomes a scene like one witnessed by Alice in one of hermany changes in size.
As a result, the poem's solemn piety isdissolved into a kind of wistful amusement at something fromanother universe.
Carroll dissolved it even more completely:This is sleight of hand of a very high order, mocking moralconvention while apparently just creating nonsense.
Something is atstake in this satire, something that may be connected to theunhappiness his biographer, Morton Cohen, finds in Carroll's life.It may have arisen, in part, from Carroll's inability orunwillingness to reconcile the disruptive looking-glass world withthe tautly controlled order of his own.Cohen points out one occasion when some kind of disturbingfantasy may have even broken through the veneer.
Something tookplace during late June 1863, after Alice had already inspiredWonderland, that led to a nearly complete break between Carroll andthe Liddells.Was it some sort of inappropriate behavior involving Alice?
(Cohen suggests a premature marriage proposal.)
Or was it somethingfar less respectable, (which Cohen does not think too plausible)?We will never know: The journal page on which Carroll had recordedhis transgression was neatly excised by a niece who found therevelation too shocking.Carroll's heirs range from P.L.
Travers, who created aruthlessly unsentimental Mary Poppins, to Maurice Sendak, whosepainterly images of dream worlds can be more unsettling to adultsthan to children.But Carroll also tamed the irrationality by giving his nonsenselogical form.
The effect in our own era of fierce conventions canbe bracing.
Forget the issues of being and seeming, of proprietyand guilt, of threats and recriminations.
Carroll offersalternative advice:Skip Away, who developed a slight swelling in his legs over theweekend, was reported to be much improved Sunday.
But his trainer,Sonny Hine, said he would wait until his star horse worked outTuesday before clearing him to travel to California to race SilverCharm and Gentlemen next Sunday in the $1 million Hollywood GoldCup.Hine said Skip Away's legs were apparently strained during anexercise gallop Friday morning when he swerved to avoid a horsethat had fallen in the mud.
Skip Away, the champion older horselast year and champion 3-year-old in 1996, unseated his rider, JoseSanchez, and got loose for 20 minutes before he was brought back byan outrider.Silver Charm, the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preaknesslast year, was unexpectedly booked into the Gold Cup on Fridayafternoon.
He left Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., Sunday andflew to Los Angeles to run against his two chief rivals for honorsamong older horses.
He is 4 years old, Skip Away is 5 and Gentlemenis 6.The Hollywood Gold Cup, at a mile and a quarter, would be thefirst meeting of the three horses.
But the handlers of all threehave expressed interest in running in the $1 million PacificClassic at Del Mar in August, the Jockey Club Gold Cup at BelmontPark in October and, ultimately, in the $4 million Breeders' CupClassic at Churchill Downs in November.WIMBLEDON, England They have put down new outdoor carpeting onthe Center Court since Pete Sampras won the Wimbledon title lastyear, an ambitious bit of redecorating not tried here for the past30 years.For Sampras and for Wimbledon, change is rarely a welcomecommodity.
But since he will be getting a toehold on the usualrugged blend of natural rye and fescue that he has trampled allfour times he has won this championship, the innovation should notprove too unsettling for Sampras.
He has more pressing problems todeal with than the greenery.Though Sampras is as tradition-minded as the keepers of this AllEngland Club, the underage grass figures to be the least of hisworries as he seeks to become the first man since Bjorn Borg tocapture five Wimbledon titles.
He has a slump to shake off and adrought in Grand Slam events to repair, not to mention a full castof characters intent on taking advantage of his fallibility throughthe first half of 1998.
Had Sampras performed up to snuff this yearat the Grand Slam events, he might already have tied Roy Emerson'scareer record dozen championships by now; instead, he has come intoWimbledon behind schedule.Sampras said the potential threats include the brute serverssuch as fourth-seeded Greg Rusedski, who has a sprained ankle,14th-seeded Goran Ivanisevic, who received a 10-spot improvementfrom Wimbledon's seeding committee in deference to his final-roundappearances in 1992 and 1994, and the 1996 champion RichardKrajicek.But Krajicek, like Australia's sixth-seeded Patrick Rafter, theslump-ridden U.S. Open champion, has yet to prove that he iscapable of winning more than one Grand Slam event.Besides the superlative servers, Sampras gave a nod in thedirection of stylish returners such as 13th-seeded Andre Agassi andeighth-seeded Cedric Pioline; but both of them arrived with lessthan intimidating grass-court preparation.True to his maverick sensibilities, Agassi, who suffered ademeaning opening-round loss to Russia's Marat Safin, an18-year-old qualifier, at the French Open, was the only seeded manto avoid all of the grass-court warm-up events.
After all, he wonthe 1992 title here after electing to do the same haphazardpreparation, much of it on the hardcourts that he claims hone histiming.As for Pioline, last year's surprise runner-up, his Wimbledonpreparation was made on a conspicuously sour note.
He was ejectedat Nottingham for cursing at the chair umpire, Pedro Bravo, duringhis match against Australia's Scott Draper, this year's Queen'sClub champion.Agassi opens Monday on Court 1 against Alex Calatrava, anotherSpaniard with no Wimbledon credentials, but Pioline could encounteran immediate stumbling block in Switzerland's Marc Rosset.No.
7-seeded Yevgeny Kafelnikov, who won the Halle title only tohave his grass-court prowess evaporate last week at Rosmalen, whereDetroit's Steve Campbell upended him, has the versatility to mountan impressive Wimbledon campaign.
But he, like Sampras, has beenexperiencing some confidence tremors of late, and his first-roundassignment against Mark Philippoussis, whose gigantic serve isdwarfed by the colossal unreliability of the rest of his strokes,will be a litmus test.With the exception of Sampras, not one of the players who haspicked up a title at the last five Grand Slam events has managed tocollect a title since.
And Petr Korda, the Australian Openchampion, has botched repeated chances to supplant Sampras.RENO, Nev. Against the vivid backdrop of recent fatal schoolshootings, elected officials across the United States for the firsttime are coordinating efforts, sometimes with unlikely partners, toreduce the incidents of gun violence.In perhaps the most unusual of the collaborations, PhiladelphiaMayor Edward Rendell has agreed to join forces with the NationalRifle Association to create a model program in Philadelphia to testone of the NRA's core beliefs, that vigorous prosecution of peoplewho violate federal gun laws would eliminate more violent crimethan tighter gun-control laws.In a broader effort aimed at finding other solutions to the sameproblems, representatives of the nation's firearms industry haveformed a task force with several mayors and county executives tostudy innovative ways to prevent guns from getting into the handsof children and criminals.Rendell's pending collaboration with the NRA arose out of achallenge by the association's new president, actor CharltonHeston.
At the NRA's convention two weeks ago in Philadelphia towhich Rendell was not invited because of his support for tightergun-control measures Heston proposed that the federal governmentdesignate one large U.S. city to test the NRA's theory that mostgun violence occurs because the criminal justice system is nottough enough on criminals.Heston suggested Philadelphia might be a good place to test it,because homicide rates there have held steady over the last decade,at more than 400 a year, despite what Rendell contends have beenvigorous prosecutions and harsh prison sentences.To win approval for a three-year program that would likely costas much as $5 million to send extra federal prosecutors and agentsinto Philadelphia, the NRA has agreed to lobby Congress forsupport, and Rendell has agreed to what may be the more formidabletask, winning the backing of the Clinton administration.Lynn Cutler, a senior White House official attending theconference, predicted that the president would be receptive toexploring the idea even though Heston sharply attacked himpolitically and personally at the NRA convention.Rendell also played a hand in creating the task force.
At theNRA convention, he and several other mayors, including Scott Kingof Gary, Ind., and Clarence Harmon of St. Louis, met withrepresentatives of the gun industry and agreed they would spend sixmonths developing ideas aimed at reducing crimes committed withguns but not infringing upon the rights of law-abiding citizens toown guns.
Many guns are stolen from dealers and distributors.
The taskforce plans to look into how security around guns in transit mightbe tightened.
While ammunition makers have already stopped producingarmor-piercing bullets and clips that hold more than 10 rounds, thegroup will look for ways to buy back those that remain on gun storeshelves.Richard Feldman, executive director of the American ShootingSports Council, which represents the gun industry's manufacturers,distributors and retailers, followed Rendell to the microphoneSunday and told the mayors that his organization was no lessfrustrated with gun violence in America than they were.But in response to a question from Mayor Jim Dailey of LittleRock, Ark., Feldman cautioned against expecting too much fromtechnology.
He said much of the technology under development wouldrender guns useless only for a moment and that five or 10 minuteslater, they could be discharged by someone other than the owner.In an interview later, Feldman held his cautious position,saying that any practical advances will take up to a decade torefine and even then would likely be available only to lawenforcement agencies.On Jan. 16 Starr's office arranged to have Linda Tripp meetMonica Lewinsky at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Pentagon City.Suddenly Starr's agents descended on Ms. Lewinsky.
They questionedher for many hours.Ms.
Lewinsky was represented by Francis Carter, who wasnegotiating for her with Paula Jones' lawyers.
Starr did not askCarter's consent to speak with his client, or even inform him.Starr has also violated, wholesale, the rules againstprosecutors talking to the press about pending investigations.
Ifanyone doubted that, it has now been made unanswerably clear bySteven Brill's meticulous marshaling of the evidence in the firstissue of Brill's Content.Brill said the Starr and Bennett talks with the press violatedRule 6e of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which forbiddisclosure of grand-jury information.
Starr argued in reply thatRule 6e did not apply because he and his staff disclosed notgrand-jury testimony but information obtained elsewhere andcomments on it.What a breathtaking assertion.
It means that whenever anyonedisagrees with him, Starr has a right to break the rules and becomean unnamed source for some journalist ready to convey his versionof the story.
In politics, that is called spinning.We all know that prosecutors leak.
But Starr has been sosanctimonious, so insistent that he never leaks.In a country whose vaunted cuisine has been largely the provinceof men, the title of that book, Miss Mathiot's first, has a certainring of defiance, and no wonder.Born in Paris in an era when women in France had far fewercareer choices than they do today, Miss Mathiot, who was chastisingthe French cooking establishment as a sexist, male-dominatedbastion long after opportunities for women improved, chafed at therestrictions from the beginning.If she couldn't do anything else, at least she could cook, andif anybody doubted her, it wasn't the generations of Frenchhomemakers who turned her book into the bible of the Frenchkitchen.Raised in an austere household headed by her father, aProtestant minister, she was a brilliant student in secondaryschool, becoming a disciple of Simone Weil, the ascetic philosopherand mystic.
But when she expressed an interest in studyingmedicine, she was persuaded instead to take teaching courses at theSorbonne and eventually to specialize in the French version of homeeconomics as a more appropriate outlet for a woman than medicine.She rose to the top of her academic field, becoming an inspectorgeneral in the French homemaking academy before French educationauthorities withdraw recognition of homemaking as an academicdiscipline.By her own account Miss Mathiot garnered a total of sevenmarriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors onreligious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiotconsidered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn'tand bowed to her family's wishes.After she established a life and career away from her family,the proposals kept coming, but Miss Mathiot continued to rejectthem, she said, though for reasons of her own.If it was a father's stern will that forced her to become a homeeconomics teacher, it was another man's inspired whim and a bitof luck that led her from the backwaters of education to thefront burner of French cuisine.While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at theParis Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of theDepression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that acookbook emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, notto mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as abroad public fascination with the developments of modern science,including advances in nutritional understanding.When leading authorities on French cuisine turned him down,Michel proposed the project to the head of a local college'sscience department, who also turned him down but set off a chain ofrecommendations that finally led Michel to the 23-year-old MissMathiot, who said yes.Her book, which included 2,000 recipes covering the canon ofFrench cuisine from lobster bisque to crepe suzette, was animmediate sensation and paved the way for sequels, among them bookson bread, pastry and even camping-trips cooking.In addition to emphasizing nutrition, Miss Mathiot's booksappealed to family cooks because they showed how to keep food costsdown while remaining true to the spirit of French cooking.A woman who presided over what she saw as a kitchen withmillions of stoves, Miss Mathiot, who leaves no immediatesurvivors, never took anything for granted.Anyone following a cake recipe, for example, might think the endhad been reached with the instruction to remove the cake from theoven, but Miss Mathiot, mindful of the distractions of a triumphantmoment, would have one more instruction: Turn off the oven.He knows that they know much more than anyone about thepenetration of the White House by Asian fronts for Chineseintelligence.
They have all the details about Indonesia's Riadyfamily's long-term investment in his career, and probably ofinstructions to influence his post-election change of trade policy.Clinton must assume it is in China's interest to provide anescape hatch for 50 fleeing witnesses, to deny being the source ofmillions in campaign contributions and to keep secret Democraticmoney laundering done by Hong Kong and Macao banks.
China will wantto conceal from the Justice Department and Congress the illegaldonations to, and policy penetration of, the White House and DNC.In obstructing any investigation, the interests of China runparallel to those of this compromised U.S. president.
Both Clintonand the Chinese want nothing further to come out.
Accept, if youwish, the protestations of Clinton defenders that his campaignorganization was duped by John Huang, Charlie Trie and Maria Hsia,and was ignorant of the source of the Asian funds solicited fromJohnny Chung.
Buy, if you like, the notion that the payments hadnothing to do with flip-flops on trade and the technology-transfertriumph over the Pentagon by anything-goes Commerce.Would they use this illicit leverage to gain a concession?
Ofcourse not; Chinese diplomacy can be exquisitely subtle.
No winksof understanding will be needed.In this charade, Clinton will formally ask the Chinese tocooperate with the Congress and the Department of Justice, andChina's Jiang will formally promise to help.
Perhaps an expendablenon-official middleman will be designated to take a gentle fall,helping Janet Reno to avoid having to seek independent counsel.
Andthe relieved Clinton will owe Jiang a big one.In light of his personal negotiating difficulty, and recognizingthe need for the U.S. to exchange summit visits with a major power,what can we reasonably ask our president to do?2.
On arrival, don't waste your mandatory human-rights messageon the accompanying press corps.
Instead, insist on making it amajor theme of your live broadcast-telecast to the Chinese people,and be sure the interpreter is our man.
Meet and be photographedwith authentic dissidents and offer to host a White House meetingbetween Jiang and the Dalai Lama.Finally, let Jiang know that the next U.S. president might notbe so vulnerable to revelations of Chinese manipulation, and willnot forget any advantage taken of this one.Baseball convention has been turned on its ear, but the gamecontinues to thrive in spite of, or precisely because of, theseinnovations.Over the next four nights in Southern California, a clamorousstatement will be made for the continuance of still anotherwrinkle: interleague play.It used to be that the area's fans could harbor only thefaintest hope of a Freeway World Series between the Dodgers andAngels.
During the first 36 years of these teams' co-tenancy of theregion, it never had the slightest glimmer of fruition.But interleague play, launched as a two-year experiment lastseason, delivered the next best thing: games between the Dodgersand Angels that actually meant something.
And the fans respondedabout as expected.Over the next four nights, the teams will participate in ahome-and-home exchange two games in Anaheim, beginning tonight,followed by two in Dodger Stadium and officials from both clubssay they are expecting robust crowds throughout.For the game's players, who will vote later this summer onwhether to continue interleague play, it presents an unmistakablemessage: This thing is good for business.It does, indeed, sell tickets.
Throughout the major leagues,last year's interleague games represented a 20 percent attendanceboost over the averages for intraleague play.
This season's first,brief burst of interleague action, two weeks ago, reflected hikesof 15 percent.Locally, the numbers last year were dramatic.
The Angelsaveraged 20,953 for American League games and 29,152 for sixinterleague contests (a 39 percent increase), and for two homegames with the Dodgers they logged their largest and fourth-largestgatherings of the year.The Dodgers drew an average of 40,320 for National League gamesand 47,019 for eight interleague dates (a 17 percent boost).
Theyactually drew better for Seattle, Texas and Oakland than they didfor the Angels, but their average for two games with the Angels(43,691) certainly wasn't shabby.The number of miniseries has been reduced the Angels have 17this year, as opposed to 26 last year; the Dodgers have 12 thisyear, compared with 25 in '97 but the issue remains a seriousstumbling block for the players' approval, said union chief DonaldFehr.Meanwhile, baseball mulls over additional modifications tointerleague play, some of which could be reflected in the newschedule.One option, which could drastically reduce the number oftwo-game series, would involve teams facing a limited number ofteams from an opposing division.
In the west, for example, theDodgers might play only Seattle and the Angels one time around, andcatch Oakland and Texas in the next season.Another would involve a rotating, three-year tour of theinterleague divisions: West one year, East the next, Central thenext.Despite its popularity, interleague play is certain to generateits share of controversy.
If the Chicago Cubs and San FranciscoGiants are pursuing the same wild card, for example, an argumentlikely will arise that the Cubs are facing much weaker opponents inthe AL Central than are the Giants in the AL West.But if baseball elects to continue on this course, it willsimply have to weather the interleague quirks.LYON, France The Iranian players shook hands with theAmericans before Sunday night's game, handed them white flowerssymbolizing peace and even posed together for a group picture.
Butfriendship extended only so far.
There was a soccer game to win,and not only did Iran prevail, 2-1, it also knocked the UnitedStates out of the World Cup.If the outcome was unexpected by many, so was the politicalcomponent of the match.
A vigorous protest was launched not againstthe Great Satan, but rather against Iran's own Islamic regime.Thousands of middle-class Iranian expatriates smuggled T-shirtsinto Gerland Stadium showing the pictures of two leaders of aParis-based opposition group called the National Council ofResistance.French police rushed into the stands several times to confiscatebanners and pictures celebrating the two dissident leaders, but newbanners and pictures kept popping up like mushrooms.
The oppositiongroup's influence is considered to be limited inside Iran, but thesize of the protest was undoubtedly an embarrassment to the Islamicregime.In the game's most surreal moment, the protesters waved theirT-shirts and banners jubilantly at halftime as the public-addresssystem played the Macarena.
About 75 French policemen in riot gearmarched to one side of the field 10 minutes before the gameconcluded, but the Iranian fans left peacefully and ecstatically.This was the first time that Iran and the United States had metin soccer competition and the first time that Iran ever won a gamein two trips to the World Cup.
The countries exchanged visits bytheir Olympic-style wrestling teams this year, and haveparticipated in the Summer Olympic Games, but this was the mostvisible head-to-head sporting event between the two countries sincethe Islamic revolution in 1979.The match was played several days after President Clinton calledfor reconciliation with Iran after 19 years of enmity between thetwo countries, and it followed a call in January by PresidentMohammad Khatami of Iran for cultural exchanges between the twocountries.
In victory on Sunday night, Iranian players said it wassignificant to have defeated the Americans.In Tehran, thousands of celebrating fans took to the streets,some of them women without their scarves, despite efforts by theIslamic regime to make sure that the celebration was not asvociferous as it had been last November when Iran qualified for theWorld Cup for the first time in 20 years.
Political experts saidthat the conservative clerics who hold power in Iran werethreatened by the joyful outburst of the people last fall, whichthey could not control.On Sunday night, restaurants in Tehran were forced to close at 9p.m., plans to show the game on giant outdoor television screenswere canceled and anti-riot police and plainclothes police set uproadblocks around the city to make sure that the celebration wasnot too forceful.
Still, the Iranian players said they knew theordinary people of Iran would be exultant.While Iran (1-1) is sure to have its hopes of advancing to thesecond round dashed on Thursday when it faces powerful Germany, atleast it can dream.
The United States (0-2) will now play ameaningless game on Thursday against Yugoslavia.If the United States was a serious soccer country, Coach SteveSampson might have lost his job on Sunday night, as coaches fromSaudi Arabia and South Korea did in recent days.
But Rothenbergsaid Sampson would coach the team against Yugoslavia.
Sampson madefive lineup changes on Sunday night, scrapping the 3-6-1 formationfor a 3-5-2 with Brian McBride and Roy Wegerle at forwards and TabRamos, Frankie Hejduk and Joe-Max Moore assuming roles in midfield.Sampson wanted assertive play after Monday's tentative loss toGermany, and on Sunday night the Americans hit the goalpost twiceand the crossbar once, but they could not score a goal.
In fact,they came forward so aggressively and took so many risks that theywere left completely out of shape on defense.In the 40th minute, with Claudio Reyna giving him far too muchroom, Iran's Hamid Estili headed a ball over the head of Americangoalkeeper Kasey Keller to give his team a 1-0 lead.
As the crowdof 35,500, made largely of Iranian fans, erupted, Estili kissed theground in celebration.Six minutes from the game's conclusion, Mehdi Mahdavikiasprinted past the disheveled American defense and blasted anothergoal past Keller.
McBride provided an inconsequential goal on aheader for the Americans in the 87th minute.Today, as about 2 million tourists each year bustle down themile-long stretch of seafood bars, candy stores and souvenir shopsthat line the historic row, any such fragile grub would be unlikelyto slither its way into open air on its own.The noise of honky-tonks, whorehouses, crowded groceries,saloons and flophouses has long been replaced by the sound ofcameras taking pictures, the laughter of children and the din ofconstruction jackhammers.
Where sardine fishing and canning oncesupplied a vibrant economy, tourism now pulls in 50 percent of thecity's annual revenue.It is the very success of Monterey's flourishing touristindustry, supported in large part by the Monterey Bay Aquarium,that concerns literary buffs and preservationists.
They say thatnew development, including a four-story shopping plaza planned forthe center of the row, threatens the last vestiges of the old life.On June 15, the National Trust for Historic Preservation agreed,and named Cannery Row as one of the nation's 11 most-endangeredhistoric places.
The National Trust is a private nonprofitorganization headquartered in Washington that was chartered byCongress to monitor historic sites.Albert said the city recently purchased Doc Rickett's Lab, whichappears in Steinbeck's book and is one of two historicallydesignated buildings on the row, for $400,000.
He said the cityalso spent nearly $2 million to make the new aquarium maintain theaesthetic feel of a cannery that once stood in its place.
Inaddition, Albert said the city plans to add markers to point outimportant buildings throughout the row, and has begun a survey of81 structures in the area to determine if they are historical.Although the city does not own much of the property on the row,Albert said that officials are trying to balance conservationefforts with private property interests by offering tax incentivesto developers to preserve the existing structures or to designbuildings that retain the texture of the old canning district.Cannery Row first came to the attention of the National Trustfor Historic Preservation last year, during a battle over the fateof the San Xavier Warehouse, one of the few remaining buildingswith a direct link to the canning industry.
City officials deemedit a safety hazard, and property owners wanted it gone, but localpreservationists held firm.
In the end, the city ordered propertyowners not to demolish the warehouse, but to take it apart piece bypiece so that parts of it could be re-used in construction.Frustrated by the city's planning process during the battle,Neal Hotelling, one of the preservationists, nominated Cannery Rowfor National Trust's annual listing of endangered places.Hotelling wants the city to zone Cannery Row as a historicdistrict, so that new construction would be considered against thehistoric value of existing structures.
He would also like to seeseveral of the large empty lots on the row filled with newbuildings, to bring back the original sense of the row a longcontinuous strip of businesses along the seaside.In the meantime, he and other preservationists want to saveseveral important structures from demolition.
One is Stohan'sGallery, a small arts and crafts gallery built in the 1940s as afish-processing plant, which was bought by developers last year.Daryl Stokes, 48, who ran Stohan's for 20 years before he wasevicted last October to make way for development, said that in thattime he has seen about 40 percent of the strip replaced with newdevelopment.On another blazing, draining day, with the temperature 98degrees in the stands and 114 on the track, Jones, a 22-year-oldCalifornian, won her third national title in two days as the U.S.outdoor track and field championships ended Sunday.Jones won the 100 meters and the long jump on Saturday night andthe 200 meters Sunday.
In the 200, she downshifted in the last 15meters and still won by 6 meters in 22.24 seconds into a slightwind.Then she smiled, relieved that she had completed the first100-200-long jump triple in women's competition in the nationalssince Stella Walsh did it 50 years ago.
In men's competition, thelast to do it was Carl Lewis in 1983.Jackie is Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who has won Olympic gold medalsin the heptathlon and the long jump.
She did not compete here butplans to be in the Goodwill Games next month in Uniondale, N.Y.Jones will be there, too, in the 100 and 200.Jones was voted the outstanding female athlete of thechampionships.
The men's honor went to John Godina, who on Saturdaynight completed the men's first discus throw-shot-put double in 43years.The best performance of the meet came Sunday afternoon before acrowd of 6,826 at Tad Gormley Stadium.
Bryan Bronson, a 25-year-oldRice graduate, won the men's 400-meter hurdles by 6 meters in 47.03seconds.
That was the fastest ever on American soil and the thirdfastest in history behind Kevin Young's 46.78 in 1992 and EdwinMoses' 47.02 in 1983.In a meet limited to U.S. citizens, Bronson and three others ranthe fastest times in the world this year.
The others were KimBatten in the women's 400-meter hurdles (53.61 seconds), JeromeYoung in the men's 400-meter dash (44.09 seconds) and Reggie Torianin the men's 110-meter hurdles (13.03 seconds).
Young, a surprisewinner, is a junior at St. Augustine's, a Division II college inRaleigh, N.C.Batten won her race for the fifth consecutive year, ConniePrice-Smith won the women's shot-put for the seventh straight year(61 feet 3 inches) and Charles Austin won the men's high jump forthe fourth straight year (7-6{).The heat slowed the distance runners throughout the meet.Sunday, Pascal Dobert won the men's 3,000-meter steeplechase in8:33.91, the slowest winning time since 1979.
But for athletes likeDobert, trying to move up to the big time, winning was enough.While many young athletes made their marks over the three days,some older ones did all right, too.
Take the men's 800-meter final,which Mark Everett had won six times in the 10 previous years andJohnny Gray six times in the 13 previous years.
This time, the29-year-old Everett beat his 38-year-old rival by 4 feet in1:45.28.
Gray's perpetual smile remained.Al Campanis, the Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off afuror and shattered his career by suggesting that blacks wereunqualified for high-level baseball jobs, died at home Sunday ofcoronary artery disease.
He was 81.Campanis could look back on 44 years in the Dodgers'organization.
A native of Greece brought to New York City as ayoungster by his mother, he graduated from New York University,served in the Navy and then embarked on a long and successfultenure in baseball.After a brief infield stint with Brooklyn in 1943, he had playedshortstop for the Montreal Royals in 1946 when Robinson broke intoorganized baseball as the Dodgers farm team's second baseman.Campanis once recalled how he had thrown his glove down andchallenged a base runner to do battle after the player tried torough up Robinson.Later, Campanis managed in the Dodgers' farm system, served asscouting director, followed the team from Brooklyn to Los Angelesand, beginning in 1968, had been vice president of playerpersonnel.
He brought Sandy Koufax and Fernando Valenzuela to theDodgers and oversaw decisions that shaped one of baseball's mostsuccessful teams.Even then, nearly four decades later, Campanis turned toRickey's thoughts for guidance, having transcribed those recordingsto cassette tapes he kept in battered blue and white shoe boxes.When he interviewed Campanis, Koppel put nostalgia aside.
Heasked him why baseball had no black managers, general managers orowners and suggested that the answer was prejudice.Minutes after Campanis began speaking, the phones at ABC startedringing, with viewers denouncing him for racist statements.
Thenext day, Robinson's widow, Rachel, Hank Aaron and baseballcommissioner Peter Ueberroth expressed dismay.Campanis is survived by his sons, George and Jim, who caught forthe Dodgers, Kansas City and Pittsburgh, five grandchildren andthree great-grandchildren.In the aftermath of the Campanis furor, Ueberroth was promptedto make hiring of minority-group members in baseball a priority.Major League Baseball created an affirmative-action program andhired Harry Edwards, a black sociology professor at the Universityof California, to identify black and Hispanic former players whocould work in baseball.WASHINGTON After her testimony in the grand jury room, GloriaCabe was left with a memory of such prosecutorial zeal in theperformance of Jackie Bennett Jr. that four years later she stillfinds it chilling for its unfettered aggressiveness.But one witness's grand-jury attack dog can be his fellowprosecutors' champion thoroughbred in the noir world ofpublic-integrity indictment and prosecution gunning forpoliticians and public officials, in laymen's parlance.Now, still fervidly on the president's case as it veers intoClinton's behavior at the White House, Bennett suddenly findshimself a lightning rod for anti-Starr critics and an embattledstalwart to his career colleagues in the Department of Justice.Critics are raising ethical questions about Bennett's role asbroker, one openly confirmed by Starr, in dealing with news mediainterested in learning investigation secrets.
At the same time,supporters are counting on Bennett to break the logjam in theMonica Lewinsky case in leading negotiations with her new lawyersfor a possible deal on testifying about her relationship withPresident Clinton.Friends and colleagues of Bennett, 41, insist he is only astough as he must be to do the right job.
He is no mere eminencegrise in Starr's investigation of the president, they insist, butrather a canny, multifaceted court performer exhilarated by his joband, they maintain, as fair as he has to be.This image of Jackie Bennett as more subtle than blunt is hardfor his latest adversaries at the White House to believe as theywatch him run a team of unyielding prosecutors here before thefederal grand jury.Bennett relies on good-cop, bad-cop skills honed in 13 years inthe courtrooms and back rooms of prosecution.
Physically andprofessionally imposing his position was offensive tackle atHanover College in Indiana Bennett is a laureate prosecutor witha booming voice, a standout in the dicey specialty of routing outcorrupt politicians.He won the attorney general's John Marshall Award as the topfederal prosecutor of 1994 for convicting Albert Bustamante, aformer representative from Texas, of racketeering and bribery, avictory that has inspired a certain sharp-edged respect amongprofessional politicians.His Texas foray, made as senior trial lawyer in the JusticeDepartment's public-integrity section, was just the fiery foundrythat Bennett needed for his job as Starr's deputy.Bennett can be no less disarming socially.
He and his wife,Cindy, have four sons, ages 1 to 8, and their family became acenterpiece of sorts in the temporary encampment of the Whitewaterteams in Little Rock.
Friends prized a relaxed barbecue with theBennetts after a long day of tracking Bill Clinton.Without fanfare but with potentially far-reaching significancefor the semiconductor industry, IBM has begun the industry's firstlarge-scale production of a type of chip that may reduce prices andimprove performance and portability for cellular phones and otherwireless communications devices.The chips are based on technology developed by IBM Corp. in theearly 1980s for mainframe computers and redirected toward consumerproducts.
It combines the standard silicon used throughout the chipindustry with germanium, a metallic element that is so efficient aconductor of electricity that it may reduce the power consumptionof portable devices as much as 50 percent.The use of germanium, which is relatively easy for chip makersto work with and is well suited to the electronics ofhigh-frequency radio communications, enabled IBM engineers tocombine wireless communications components and silicon digitaltransistors on a single chip.By consolidating equipment and capabilities that typicallyrequire several chips or components, makers of cellular telephonesand other consumer products can reduce the size and complexity ofthose products.
Industry experts say it may eventually be possibleto create the entire electronics of a cellular phone on a singlechip.Other applications may include home receivers fordirect-broadcast satellite television and various kinds of portabledevices for wireless connections to the Internet.
Many analystsalso expect silicon germanium chips, because of their high-speedprocessing ability, to play a key role in future network-switchingequipment for routing all sorts of Internet traffic.The components market into which IBM will be selling the chipsis now estimated at $540 million a year, but the company predictedthat its own piece of the market would exceed $1 billion annuallywithin five years.Initial customers for the IBM chips, which the company beganproducing in large quantities last week at an updated plant inBurlington, Vt., are Hughes Electronics, Harris Semiconductor,National Semiconductor, Northern Telecom and Tektronix.
All fivecompanies have also licensed IBM's technology to incorporate intotheir own product designs.
IBM said it had two dozen additionalcustomers, which it was not yet ready to identify.Although IBM declined to discuss pricing for the new chips,industry analysts estimated that it might sell for $10 and replacea cluster of components now costing as much as $100.Further in the future may lie more speculative but potentiallyvast markets for applications like collision-avoidance radar forautomobiles.
Such systems, long considered impractical because ofcost, may be within the reach of inexpensivesilicon-germanium-based devices.The components of the IBM chip that are based on germaniuminvolve analog technology meaning that they convert sound, lightor physical motion into electrical patterns analogous to theoriginal source.
Analog chips are required in digital devices likecellular phones to convert the human voice into an electronicsignal that a digital chip can translate into the binary-code dataof ones and zeroes used in modern communications networks.IBM executives say that as many as 50 other companies arepursuing similar technology, but industry analysts agree that IBMhas taken a clear lead in silicon germanium chips.Until now, gallium arsenide has been the most promising materialfor extremely high-speed computing and communications applications.But semiconductors based on it have been expensive and difficult tomanufacture, confining its use mainly to high-performance computingand limited consumer applications.Initial versions of IBM's silicon germanium technology weredeveloped in the early 1980s by Bernard Meyerson and otherscientists at the company's T.J. Watson Research Laboratory inYorktown Heights, N.Y., who were seeking a way to speed theperformance of mainframe computers.By the early '90s, though, IBM had altered the technology courseof its mainframes, basing them instead on an inexpensive chipprocess known as CMOS, for complementary metal oxide semiconductor.So Meyerson and his team redirected their silicon germanium worktoward a new class of chips that would combine all the functions ofanalog communications equipment and digital computers.Researchers had long known that by adding tiny amounts ofgermanium to silicon, it would be possible to achieve notableincreases in the speed at which transistors direct, or switch,electrons through a chip's circuitry.
Because of differences in thesizes of silicon and germanium atoms, however, semiconductors madefrom composites of the two materials typically failed.Meyerson's solution was to find a relatively low-temperaturetechnique for creating a thin film of germanium that could besuccessfully bonded to silicon.The result was a semiconductor manufacturing process thatcombined the benefits of low-cost silicon and ultra-high-speedgermanium.SAN FRANCISCO Maybe this is why Lee Janzen had downplayed thepotential depression when a sickening Sunday 79 had cost him ThePlayers Championship in March.
Maybe this is why he had morerespect for his year than the statistics had shown.On Sunday at The Olympic Club, the 33-year-old Janzen earned agiant award for both hard work and good faith.
Capitalizing on anoff day by his Orlando neighbor, Payne Stewart, Janzen shot a2-under-par 68 to win his second U.S. Open by one shot at even-par280.Stewart, who was trying for a wire-to-wire win, stumbled to a4-over 74 and finished at 281.
His chance to tie Janzen and force aplayoff Monday came and went at the 18th hole, when downhill20-footer try for birdie slipped a few inches below the hole.Janzen trailed by seven shots after three holes Sunday, withbogeys on No.
2 and No.
3, but played solidly down the stretch,birdieing the 13th and then parring in.
When Stewart's putt missed,he broke into tears with wife Beverly.A par at the difficult 17th was a key for Janzen after makingtwo bogeys and a double-bogey there in previous rounds.
Janzenfired his shot to the 18th over the flag, then cautiously eased abending 20-footer to within three feet, and made it for par.Janzen, who won the 1993 U.S. Open at Baltusrol by two strokesover Stewart started the sunny, cool day five strokes behind theman in the plus-fours. .
In the event of a Stewart collapse, Janzenwas not the most logical choice to step up and take over.
Itclearly was Tom Lehman, who played in the final group for thefourth straight year, but again walked away without the major he sodesires.
Lehman stomached a 75 and tied for fifth, six shots behindJanzen.Georgia Tech U.S.
Amateur champion Matt Kuchar concluded with a74 and tied for 14th at 9-over 289, earning a return trip to nextyear's Open at Pinehurst.Former Marietta, Ga. player Bob Tway finished third with a 73 at284, a stroke ahead of Nick Price, who had a 73 for 285.Washington's growing involvement in a brutal Latin Americanguerrilla war echoes the opening stages of American intervention inthe conflict in El Salvador in the 1980s.Diana Jean Schemo and Tim Golden reported in The Times earlierthis month that much of the aid the Pentagon is giving Colombia'smilitary to fight cocaine is being used instead to fightguerrillas.
American special-forces trainers now work in Colombia,teaching the military such skills as jungle maneuvering andpsychological operations.
While the level of support is far belowAmerican aid to the Salvadoran military in the 1980s, theadministration is unwisely considering an increase.As in El Salvador, American aid is going to an abusive and ineptarmy fighting vicious Marxist guerrillas.
The guerrillas killpoliticians and kidnap Americans.
The military has strong ties toparamilitary death squads, which massacre peasants and murder humanrights workers and left-wing politicians.
Last year, 10 people aday died in political murders.
Seventy percent of the killings wereattributed to soldiers or paramilitaries.Support for the army also undermines Colombia's precariouscivilian institutions.
The military is defying a constitutionalcourt ruling to reform its justice system.
Generals have openlyrefused to obey presidential orders relating to peace.The narco-guerrilla connection is disputed by many in theColombian government and the American State Department, who call ita label invented by the Colombian military to allow them to use theaid to fight guerrillas.
Myles Frechette, the American ambassadorto Colombia until the end of 1997, publicly criticized the term,and American intelligence services in 1996 concluded that the termwas far overblown.
Ironically, there may be strong ties between theparamilitaries and the traffickers.
Colombia's investigative policesay Carlos Castano, a top paramilitary leader, heads a drug cartel.As in El Salvador, peace talks are the only solution to a civilwar neither side can win.
Colombians overwhelmingly endorsed talksin a referendum last year, both candidates in the presidentialrunoff election backed them, and previously recalcitrant guerrillasare showing interest.
Washington can best support the talks byterminating its aid to a military that has undermined them.
James Hormel, President Clinton's nominee to be ambassador toLuxembourg, is opposed by a small group of Republican senators whoare looking smaller all the time.It is not Hormel's credentials that are in question.
An heir tothe Hormel meat-packing fortune, a former dean of the University ofChicago Law School, he has given leadership and money to causesthat range from the San Francisco Symphony to Swarthmore Collegeand the Human Rights Campaign, the main political lobby forhomosexual rights.Discrimination against people on the basis of their sexualorientation is outlawed in Luxembourg and in all the othercountries in the European Union.
It is illegal in San Francisco,where Hormel lives, and in Washington except in such places asCongress, where the Republican leadership has made a fetish of itlately.POCONO, Pa. With a lump in his throat and Jeff Gordon on hisrear bumper, Jeremy Mayfield beat down every challenge Sunday andput victory No.
1 in his Winston Cup scrapbook.The 29-year-old native of Owensboro, Ky. took the lead from hishometown hero, Darrell Waltrip, on lap 180, and then had to holdoff Gordon over the final 21 laps, winning by a scant 0.341seconds.It was prophetic that that it would be Mayfield who went toVictory Lane before teammate Rusty Wallace.
Wallace lasted only 13laps, victimized by a blown engine.He had considerable good luck this week.
He won $111,580,including a $40,000 bonus from Winston for winning the race andleading the Winston Cup points.
With his victory, he increased hispoints lead to 36 over second place Gordon and is 48 in front ofJarrett.He dominated this one, leading five times for 122 of the 200laps.
Only Dale Jarrett and Gordon led more than once under greenfor a total of 43 laps.
He was never more than 12th on restarts orin harm's way during the nine cautions for 47 laps.They are both students from Congo who fled to the United States,certain they would have been killed in the political turmoil athome.
Bakam Mimpongo, 21, was caught at New York's KennedyInternational Airport, trying to enter with fake papers.
BisinwaBorumbi, 22, stowed away in a cargo ship and was seized inJacksonville, Fla.Each gave similar accounts of persecution, of paramilitarygroups and rebels ravaging villages and taking prisoners, of theirdesperate need for asylum.But in the United States, their paths have sharply diverged.
Ms.Mimpongo spent five months and 10 days in a federal detentioncenter in New York City last year before being granted asylum.Borumbi, detained in Miami in February of this year, was freed onparole after three weeks, but his case has not yet been resolved.Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees point to thedifferent treatment of cases like these as a sign that federalimmigration laws are applied unevenly throughout the nation.Important decisions from how long it takes to review an asylumseeker's case to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detainedfor months seem to hinge more on the number of beds available ata detention center than on a cohesive national policy.The inconsistencies in granting parole are dizzying, saidCharles Wheeler, who monitors the cases of asylum seekersnationwide as the supervisor of the detention project at theCatholic Legal Immigration Network, a private advocacy group in SanFrancisco.In El Paso, Texas, he said, many asylum seekers have to postbond before being paroled.
In Los Angeles and New Jersey, asylumseekers are usually released, but only if family members willsponsor them.
In Miami, virtually everyone is released.
In NewYork, virtually no one is.A recently released study and interviews with more than a dozenlawyers and their clients confirm Wheeler's findings.
While someasylum seekers are allowed to argue their cases shortly afterarrival, others languish in detention for months, sometimessurrounded by convicted criminals in county jails.
Some arereleased after posting bond as low as $5,000, or simply byproviding the address where they plan to reside.While some women with children are released immediately, othersare held for months, separated from their children.
Lawyers saidthat clients with identical cases might be treated differently fromone month to the next.Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say that theseirregularities are an especially urgent issue now because theswiftness of deportations under the new law makes the need for agood, timely defense more critical than ever.Under the old law, people who requested asylum were allowed tostay in the country while their cases were heard by immigrationjudges.
If the judges ruled against them, they could appeal to theBoard of Immigration Appeals and then the federal courts, a processthat could take a year or more.Now, detainees are under pressure to prepare a compelling casequickly and lawyers say this is a difficult task for peoplebehind bars.
Instead of freely searching for lawyers and preparingtheir cases, detainees who do not speak English or know the laws ofthe United States must often wait for lawyers to spot them andvisit them at detention centers, usually out-of-the-way places thatresemble jails and afford little privacy.There is no way of knowing precisely how many people have beenaffected adversely by the law, because the federal government doesnot keep statistics of how many people who go through the newprocedures are denied asylum.
But asylum seekers are always a tinypercentage of the hundreds of thousands people who seek entry intothe United States every year.From August of last year through the end of January, forexample, 1,300 new arrivals expressed a fear to return home.
Ofthose, 1,066 were sent to detention centers; the rest weredeported.Karen Musalo, a co-director of the study, said that asylumseekers sometimes mothers and their children are routinely keptin detention in New York for months until a judge hears their case.That is what happened to Sivajini Kadambarathnam, 35, and her13-year-old son, Rajakumar.
The two were stopped on March 12, uponarrival at Kennedy Airport without documents from Sri Lanka, andordered detained, her immigration records show.
But because nochildren are allowed in the Queens detention center, Rajakumar wassent to a center for juveniles in Miami.Immigration officials said they were willing to release the boy,but not the mother, to sponsors.
But the sponsor would not take theboy by himself, so the two remained in detention but separated, oneof her lawyers, Eileen Collins Bretz, said.
Mrs. Kadambarathnam wasgranted political asylum and released June 2, after nearly threemonths in detention.
Her son had been released a day earlier.In Miami, where the influx of Haitian and Central Americanimmigrants seldom lets up, the Krome detention center routinelyreleases asylum seekers who can show they have a place to stay,said Stacey Taeuber, a pro-bono lawyer who works with detainees.The policy was different last year: to be released on parole,asylum seekers needed to post a $5,000 bond.One of Ms. Taeuber's clients was Gabriel Jaime Castano, 28, aColombian immigrant who said he had no intention of seekingpolitical asylum when he arrived at Miami International Airport inJanuary with a visitor's visa.
A farmer from near Medellin, Castanosaid he had gone to Miami to escape his country's violence for afew weeks.
He was tired of paying off both the army and theguerrillas with 20 live chickens a month to stay alive, hesaid.Immigration officers detained him because they did not believehe intended only to visit, Castano said.
After consulting withlawyers there, he said he realized that asking for political asylumwould get him out of detention faster than sticking to his originalclaim.That tactic would probably not have worked in New York.
When theWackenhut detention center fills up, asylum seekers are sent to adetention center in Elizabeth, N.J., or to the York County Prison,in York, Pa., said Mark Thorn, a spokesman from the INS office inNew York.Judy Epstein, a spokeswoman from the Hebrew Immigrant AidSociety, said that one of the agency's clients a 20-year-oldwoman from Ghana who has been detained for seven months wasrecently transferred to Pennsylvania.
The woman, Swaibatu Mohammed,told the agency that five other women were moved with her.In years to come, the INS intends to detain even more people asit builds more detention facilities, said Bergeron.
In doing so, hesaid, the agency would be following the mandate of Congress, whichsince 1996 has allocated $205.3 million to add 7,364 spaces to theagency's current detention capacity and 882 positions to itspayroll.Already, the INS has 15,000 beds in nine detention facilities,prisons and an array of local jails around the country, an 80percent increase from the number of beds available just three yearsago.
Yet, Bergeron said, to accommodate all the people the lawmandates be detained those who seek entry into the United Stateswith no papers or with fraudulent documents the agency will haveto double its current detention capacity.TEHRAN, Iran In a high-stakes political battle filled withrecriminations and rage, Iran's Parliament voted Sunday to dismissone of the closest allies of Mohammad Khatami, the reform-mindedpresident.Parliament is controlled by Khatami's enemies.
Its action Sundayis the most serious political setback to his presidency since hislandslide victory 13 months ago as well as graphic proof ofKhatami's limited room for maneuver in Iran's Islamic Republic.The vote came just three days after Secretary of State MadeleineAlbright warmly praised Khatami and the direction in which he seemsto be taking the country, and she held out the prospect of eventualnormalization of relations with Iran.The vote, 137-117 with 11 abstentions, came in a secret ballotafter several hours of impassioned debate in which Noori wasaccused of arrogantly dismissing officials who did not share hispolitics, fostering an unstable economic environment and puttingthe country's security at risk.The vote was as much an attack against Khatami as it was againstNoori, and it is part of a wider campaign led by conservativemembers of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to thepresident.The parliamentary session was broadcast live on radio and lateron television as millions of Iranian viewers were awaiting the livebroadcast of the World Cup soccer match between the United Statesand Iran at 11:30 p.m.
Both opponents and supporters of Nooristepped up to the lectern in the center of the modest parliamentaryhall to air their views.Noori was reflecting the position voiced repeatedly by Khatamiand his supporters that what is at stake is nothing less than thesoul of the nation.
According to this line of thinking, unless Iranbecomes freer at home and more open to the outside world, it willlose the allegiance of the generation that has been born in the 19years since the monarchy was overthrown.But Khatami is fiercely opposed by those clerics and theirfollowers who believe that the core beliefs of the revolution arebeing sacrificed.Nateq-Noori had been the front-runner for president and lost inan upset to Khatami.Noori, 49, a mid-ranking cleric from Isfahan, has been anoutspoken proponent of Khatami's commitment to impose a rule of lawand has come under fire for issuing permits to allow groups toconduct peaceful demonstrations.Under the constitution, the country's spiritual leader,Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and not the president, controls thejudiciary, as well as the military, radio and television and theintelligence and security services.But Khatami has encouraged Noori to challenge decisions by thejudiciary particularly the arrest of Tehran Mayor GholamhosseinKarabaschi, who is on trial on corruption and embezzlement charges.The trial is broadcast on television in the evenings.Noori has also strongly supported Karabaschi and has openlycriticized the chief of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammed Yazdi,for arresting the mayor in April without telling Noori.In another sign that he had no intention of surrendering toParliament, Khatami appointed Mostafa Tajzadeh, a deputy ministerof the interior, as the acting minister.
Tajzadeh, a staunchsupporter of the president, was also criticized Sunday by somemembers of Parliament.LYONS, France When Americans and Iranians exchange gifts andmingle on the field for an unusual mass photograph before the game,the emphasis should not be on embarrassment.
The players made thegestures of good will, so why torture the American players bytalking of national humiliation?Iran beat the United States, 2-1, in a soccer game Sunday night.This is a big shock only if one is caught up in the history betweenthe two nations.
Actually, the United States was essentially aninnocent bystander in all the political maneuvering Sunday night.The action in the stands involved thousands of Iranian exileswearing T-shirts supporting an opposition movement, and trying towave banners.
This was not a case of Iran against the Great Satanin the stands, nor was it that way on the playing field.There was no political zealousness in the eyes of the Iranianplayers on the field, no holy mission in their faces or theiractions.
In fact, they came out tentatively.People back home in the United States might expect one-sidednessin basketball, the way Charles Barkley toyed with the Angolans inthe 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, but this is soccer, not thefirst or second or third American sport of choice.
The Yanks wereneither opportunistic nor intelligent nor lucky Sunday night, andnow they have no chance to advance in this World Cup, which is asetback from 1994.The Iranians played hard, and they caught a few breaks on thegoalkeeper's best friend, the perpendicular bars that stopped threeAmerican shots.
Any way you look at it, the Iranians won a WorldCup game for the first time in the nation's history, and peoplecelebrated in the streets of Lyons.Most of the people celebrating were exiles, people who had leftIran for one reason or another and are now making their way quitenicely in this materialistic world.
They could afford the air faresand the hotel bills and the street ticket prices to get into thisgame and wear T-shirts protesting the current Iranian regime.
Andwhen the ball went in the net two times, the expatriates celebratedalong with their Iranian brothers and sisters back home.
Thevictory united them.
Underdogs always cheer.For all that, the Yanks knew they were losing a historic game,and falling right out of contention, like South Korea and SaudiArabia before them.
In the past day, those two nations dismissedtheir coaches with a game to play.
There will be no suchshenanigans from the American soccer federation, but it is clearthat the Steve Sampson era will end after the Yugoslavia game onThursday.A new lineup, new combinations, old guys, unproven guys,questionable squad cuts, mass benchings of old reliables all ofthis set a mood under Sampson these past couple of weeks.Sunday night, Iran rushed on the attack, and Hamid Estiliflicked an artful header into the corner of the goal, outjumpingTab Ramos, all of 5 feet 7 inches, and Claudio Reyna, 5-10, neitherof whom is a defender.Going into this World Cup, the operative theory was that heightwould play a big part in the Iran game, but here was a 5-9 playermatched against two of the smaller Yanks who should normally nothave been back there defending the goal in the first place.The defensive scramble was symptomatic of a team with littlecharacter or leadership.
The Iranians played hard and they playedresourcefully, and when it was over, they sought out the Americansfor the normal sporting gestures.
One Iranian player walked halfthe length of the field to muss the hair of Reyna, who wasobviously stunned.
Several players exchanged shirts on the field,an open sign of sporting acceptance by two nations that have hadtheir differences.Perhaps the gestures will lead to warmer relations between thenations.
For the Americans, the shirts will be a memento of ahistoric loss that will hurt for a long time, not for the politics,but for the end of hope.SAN FRANCISCO While nobody was looking.
While all attentionwas on a pair two twosomes ahead.
While those who ride darkhorseswere saddling up Tom Lehman.
While the old Olympic Club coursestood firm in defense of its harsh reputation.
Lee Janzen slippedin the side door and won the U.S. Open.
Payne Stewart had held thelead for three days, and the lead in a U.S. Open can become a heavyload.Tom Watson had predicted the winning score would be over par.
Hewas close.
All Janzen had to do was shoot even par for 72 holes,two rounds of 73 to go with 66 Friday and a closing 68, one of onlyfive rounds under par Sunday.
Of all the names on the leaderboard,only three showed gains for the day, Janzen, the champion, JeffSluman with a 68 and David Duval with a 69.This is Janzen's second Open championship, and the fellow hethwarted was the same fellow he thwarted at Baltusrol in 1993.Stewart had a putting chance on the last green, 25 feet downhill onthe slippery 18th.
Eleven years ago, when Scott Simpson won here,Watson left a 25-foot uphill putt two inches short.
This time,Stewart's putt drifted three inches below the hole.He wears plus-fours, flat caps, startling colors and chews gum.He lights up the horizon.
Janzen is a fellow of placid appearance,makes no waves, stirs no emotions.
He has been a solid, steadyplayer since he first hit the PGA Tour in 1990, a rookie out ofFlorida Southern College.
He came out of Minnesota, lived awhile inMaryland, now lives in the same area as Stewart in the Orlandoarea.This was the eighth tournament he has won, and makes up by awhopping lot for a couple that got away this year.
He made aserious run in The Players Championship and faded, had the lead inHouston and dropped out of sight.
He hadn't won since the SprintInternational three years ago.
He has made a more than averagecontribution to U.S. Open history.
When he beat Stewart atBaltusrol, his score of 272 tied the championship record that JackNicklaus has set there in 1980.
It still stands.Olympic has a habit of delivering champions from out of theranks.
An obscure Jack Fleck won a playoff from Ben Hogan in 1955.Bill Casper beat Arnold Palmer in 1963 and Simpson's winning setoff no national celebrations.
So Janzen sat there looking about assurprised as anybody, surely as thankful as those just happy tohave a winner rather than a playoff.BOGOTA, Colombia With horns blaring and banners flutteringfrom car windows, Colombians voted a resounding end on Sunday tothe scandal-ridden presidency of Ernesto Samper, electing as hissuccessor the man who first accused Samper of accepting money fromdrug dealers.The election of Andres Pastrana, the Conservative former mayorof Bogota, over Horacio Serpa of the Liberal Party, Samper'sinterior minister and most loyal advocate, opens a new chapter inColombia's relations with the United States, which have boiled overwith bitterness and suspicion during Samper's four years in power.The unusually strong showing of Pastrana who won a highernumber of votes than any previously elected president and a highturnout came in sharp contrast to public opinion surveys, all ofwhich had shown the two candidates virtually tied for thepresidency and had predicted a low voter turnout.Rangel predicted that relations with the United States wouldimprove dramatically with Sunday's election of Pastrana, probablyentering a new era of closeness and cooperation between the twocountries.Under Samper, who was acused of accepting $6 million from drugdealers in his election campaign and who was stripped of his U.S.visa two years ago, U.S. officials cultivated ties with otherindividuals or agencies like the chief of police, Gen. Rosso JoseSerrano while largely avoiding direct encounters with thepresident.While Pastrana may enjoy strong electoral backing, the Congresshere remains heavily Liberal.
Ingrid Betancur, a Liberal deputy whohas been supporting Pastrana's candidacy, said that Pastrana wouldprobably seek a public referendum to elect a new Congress as partof an overall drive for political reform if he could not governwith the current Congress.As president elect, Pastrana's first order of business isexpected to be a direct meeting with the leader of the largestrebel group that has been battling government security forces formore than 30 years, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.
Hepledges to hold such as meeting as early as next week if securitypermits.The two candidates' potential ability to negotiate an end to thecivil conflict that has claimed more than 30,000 lives in Colombiawas, along with the economy, a top issue in the campaign.
With thestrong support of Colombia's business community and hisConservative credentials unquestioned by the military, Pastranaappears to have wide latitude for tackling the country's mostdifficult problems.In the final days of campaigning, Pastrana had pledged to meetwith Manuel Marulanda, the rebel leader, who had already met withPastrana's campaign chief the week before.The rebel leader allowed the release of a photo of himselftalking with Pastrana's campaign manager, in what appeared to be asilent endorsement of the Conservative candidate.
That move struckat the heart of Serpa's claim to be the candidate most capable ofnegotiating peace talks, and it increased Pastrana's standing amongvoters weary of the intractable civil conflict.Pastrana has pledged to lead negotiations personally with theleftist rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia andwith the smaller National Liberation Army and has agreed to aguerrilla demand that government security forces evacuate fivemunicipalities during any peace negotiations.
He has pledgedseparate parallel talks with right-wing paramilitary leaders, whohave been demanding a say in any peace negotiations.Pastrana has not ruled out a settlement that would incorporatethe rebels into the government, allowing them political control ofareas they already control on the ground.
Under such an agreement,the government would eventually end fumigation of drug crops,holding the rebels responsible for eliminating drug crops in theirareas.
Pastrana has proposed an international aid plan to supportalternative development in coca growing regions as well.The mood in Bogota was festive and energetic on Sunday, withcars festooned with posters and stickers for the candidatescareening through down the avenues and taking over street corners.Youngsters painted their faces in the red, blue and yellow of theColombian flag and waved flags from car windows.At scattered stoplights around the city, the supporters forPastrana exhorted drivers to vote for their candidate, while acrossthe street, supporters of Serpa shouted the praises of their man.At polling places from the working class district of SouthCandelaria to the toney outdoor polling stations in northernBogota, voters appeared divided, and none too pleased with eitherof the candidates.Jorge Ramirez, a 46-year-old businessman, stood with his dogoutside the room where he would vote.
He said he could not decidefor whom to vote and listed his country's troubles.In the poorer neighborhoods, Pastrana, the son of formerPresident Misael Pastrana, was frequently resented for hispolitical pedigree, while Serpa was embraced for having risen abovehis working class background in the oil port of Barrancabermeja.But those aspiring to the middle class, holding management jobs orowning their own businesses, appeared to favor Pastrana.LYON, France They never saw themselves going out this way.
Notwith a whistle blowing and scarlet-clad Iranians leaping off thebench and hugging and kissing and weeping and thanking the heavens.Not with one match left to play.
Not two-and-out.Four years ago, when less was expected, the Yanks hadoverachieved.
They had made it to the second round and lost by onegoal to eventual champion Brazil.
The draw was tougher this timeand they were playing overseas and yet ...They never thought they would lose last night.
Iran had not beento a World Cup in 20 years.
The sport had gone moribund there fornearly a decade after the Islamic revolution and during the warwith Iraq.Not that the Americans ever thought it would be easy.
They knewhow much beating Uncle Sam meant back in Tehran.
They knew theIranians would play themselves into the ground.
But the Americansthought that if they loaded their lineup with attackers and keptcoming, coming, coming, they would win.So they came with guns blazing.
They controlled the ball for 34minutes, 20 of them in the attacking zone.
They took 27 shots.Brian McBride hit the crossbar.
Claudio Reyna hit the right post.David Regis hit the left post.
Frankie Hejduk nearly blew a holethrough the keeper's gut from sawed-off shotgun range.
Nothing.
Notuntil 87 of the 90 minutes had ticked down and Iran was already upby two goals.The Americans never dreamed it would not be them.
Even thoughthey had struggled to qualify for the tournament, they haddeveloped a reputation for winning the important match or atleast not losing it.
They had played down a man for much of aqualifying match against Mexico in Mexico City's foul thin air andmanaged a scoreless draw.
They had beaten the Canadians by threegoals in Vancouver to get here.
They figured they could win lastnight, even if the ball wasn't bouncing for them.They are still not good enough to get a result, even after threeconsecutive trips to the World Cup.
Getting a result is a soccerterm for extracting exactly what you need out of a match.
Threepoints, one point, or zero points with only one goal allowed.
Thecountries that win World Cups the Brazils, the Germanys, theItalys, the Argentinas know how to get a result.The Americans, down 1-0, lost 2-1.
So they'll fly to Nantestoday and sit around a seaside hotel for three days and wait toplay a match that will mean something in Belgrade but nothing inBoston.
They've canceled next weekend's just-in-case hotelreservations in Montpellier and Toulouse.
Come Friday, they'll puton their blue blazers and neckties and fly home to a country thatwill be watching baseball and Wimbledon.There is still time for National Basketball Association playersto form a team and compete for the United States in Athens, Greece,this summer, just as there is still time for the players and ownersto agree on a deal that would ensure labor peace before the currentcollective-bargaining agreement expires on July 1.But given the stubborn climate of recent negotiations, neitherappears likely.
Even with a meeting Monday in New York, both sidesappear headed toward a long, tense summer of bargaining.
With majormonetary issues on the table, the league faces the growingpossibility of losing games to labor strife for the first time.Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players'association, proposed last Wednesday that both sides agree to amoratorium rather than the owners' locking out the players.
Alockout would prohibit any NBA business between players and teams,meaning the free-agent signing period, set to begin July 1, wouldbe postponed indefinitely.But the owners will not accept any deal that allows morecontracts or trades to be signed and consummated under the currentrules.
Barring major concessions, two league officials confirmedlast Friday, a lockout is imminent.Using the world championships in Athens as a platform, the 12NBA players selected for the team have decided to boycott the gamesuntil a labor agreement is reached.
USA Basketball, theorganization that selects teams for international play, stoked thefires last week, saying it would send another team to Athens.There is hope for Grant Hill, Gary Payton and friends to playoverseas.
FIBA, which oversees international competition, hasprivately intimated to USA Basketball that it would accommodatelast-minute replacements in order to field the best team possible.It is a move that would clear the way for NBA players to decide tocompete shortly before the games begin on July 29.According to a lawyer familiar with the negotiations, the ownerswant to install a hard salary cap, essentially a fixed amount eachteam can spend in a season, without exceptions.
Over the next twoor three seasons, teams would also like to phase out the Larry Birdexception, in which teams can pay their own free agents whateverthey want, regardless of the salary cap.For the owners, the ultimate goal is to reduce salaries over athree-year period so that they do not exceed 48 percent to 50percent of revenues.
They also would like to limit individualsalaries so that one or two players do not gobble up all the moneyon a roster.Whereas the owners see their proposals as finally bringing someeconomic balance to a league of $100 million-or-bust contracts, theplayers view the approach as taking back what it is already theirs.This is what preparation for the NBA has come to: A guy who hadnot played five-on-five basketball until two years ago may end upgoing No.
1 in Wednesday's draft.Now hedging on whether they will select Arizona point guard MikeBibby with the first pick, the Los Angeles Clippers may take theUniversity of Pacific's 7-foot-1-inch Nigerian, Michael Olowokandi,this week in Vancouver, British Columbia.The club is said to be divided on which player it will choose,leaving the door open for the first five or six selections.Vancouver, which is said to be interested in taking the Kansasforward Paul Pierce at No.
2, is still entertaining offers fromteams for its pick.
The Denver Nuggets, who have the third pick,are worried the Toronto Raptors will move up from No.
4 to No.
2 inorder to take Olowokandi or Bibby, thus forcing them to take Pierceinstead of the big man they covet.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.
Firefighters raced to one blaze afteranother Sunday as brush fires likely started by lightning burned near the Palm Beach Gardens Municipal Golf Course and inwoods around Jupiter Middle School.Two Palm Beach County Fire Rescue units also were sent north toJonathan Dickinson State Park in Martin County, where they helpedcontrol a 20-acre fire in the 640-acre Girl Scout camp.
A 30-acrefire also broke out in the Dupree Reserve in Indiantown, MartinCounty fire rescue workers said.No homes were destroyed, no people hurt.
But Northern Palm BeachCounty and parts of Martin County fell under a heavy haze of brushfire smoke.The fire near Jupiter Middle School started at about 12:30 p.m.as two smaller fires about 1,000 feet apart, Smith said.
But by 4p.m., the fires had merged, winds stoked the fire to about 10acres.
At times, the blaze moved dangerously close to portableclassrooms on the south side of the campus.He added, though, that the number of Palm Beach County brushfires so far this year is below normal because a wet winter delayedthe November start of the brush fire season by two months.So far this month, less than one-half inch of rain has fallen inPalm Beach County, according to the National Weather Service.
Thenorm by this time of month is about 4.9 inches.Baker said he hopes that forecast comes through.
If not, SouthFlorida risks drying up like North Florida, where weeklong brushfires have threatened homes and led to evacuations, he said.Elsewhere Sunday, wildfires closed a stretch of Interstate 95,kept dozens of evacuated residents near Deland away from theirhomes and consumed 10,000 acres of forest owned by paper and timbercompanies in north-central Florida.Firefighters battled blazes in at least 19 counties.
Eighty-sixfires had been started in the past 24 hours, mostly by lightingstrikes, and 80 to 90 new fires were expected daily unless Floridareceived some rainfall, officials said.Since Memorial Day, fires have burned 72 homes and 41 otherstructures in Florida.
President Clinton has declared the entirestate a fire disaster area, and a statewide, outdoor, burning banremains in effect, indefinitely.The U.S. Forest Service said that 80 percent of the state was ata drought index level equivalent to a desert.
A heat wave continuedto hover over most of the state.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.
It was remorse, detectives say, that ledwealthy murder suspect Isaac Benarroch to fire a .40 caliber guninto his own chest a year ago.But his remorse wasn't over the death of Richardo La Bergere,the suburban West Palm Beach man police suspect Benarroch orderedkilled.
Nor, police say, was it over Zvika Yuz, a Fort Lauderdale,Fla.
man who like La Bergere was shot to death after receivingdeath threats from Benarroch.Instead, detectives say, Benarroch, 64, a Venezuelan living inNorth Miami, Fla., killed himself at an exclusive Georgia resortbecause he'd squandered his vast inheritance and would otherwisehave little to leave his children.Rather than die a working man, Benarroch plotted his own suicidefor at least two years, police said, as part of an elaborateinsurance scheme to leave his children millionaires and still liveout his last years in style.Police said a shady network of secret investors paid Benarroch'slife insurance premiums while Benarroch lived in a condo equippedwith a waterfall and stream.Benarroch's $16 million scheme unfolds in files compiled by PalmBeach County sheriff's deputies investigating the Feb. 12, 1997,assassination of La Bergere outside the Tennis Club of Palm Beachin suburban West Palm Beach.
A man wearing a motorcycle helmetwandered the parking lot and tennis courts for two hours beforeshooting La Bergere, 64, nine times, police said.The thick files of the La Bergere homicide case now sit in a boxwaiting for a new lead, particularly the shooter's identity, saidsheriff's Detective Michael Wingate, who led the investigation.Leads began drying up after a maid found Benarroch dead in his$230-a-night room at The Cloister hotel on Sea Island, Ga., a yearago this past Saturday.
After months of investigation, GlennCounty, Ga., police Detective Neal Zealous concluded the death wasa suicide intended to look like an accident.Detectives in Georgia and Florida learned Benarroch, a fanaticaltennis player, had approached friends in his tennis circles andeven an old University of Miami college roommate about anopportunity to double their money.Det.
Zealous found Benarroch held insurance policies worthnearly $16 million upon his death with four companies: Two withPrudential Insurance Company of America in Newark, N.J., for $7million and $2 million; one with Lincoln Benefit Life Company inLincoln, Neb., for $4 million; one with American General Corp. inHouston, Texas, for $2 million; and one with Traveler's Life Annuities Co. in Hartford, Conn., for $950,000.Wyllner could not be reached for comment.
But according to thestatement he gave to police, Benarroch said he needed investors topay the more than $100,000 in insurance premiums per year until theone- to two-year suicide clauses in the policies expired.
UponBenarroch's death, the investors would double their money.Then Benarroch explained why.
He recalled how his father awokeat 5 a.m. to sweep the family's little appliance store in Venezuelawhen he was a young boy.
His parents had worked so hard to give hima good life; eventually, that little store grew into one of thebiggest stores in Caracas.
In time, he inherited a fortune.But as Benarroch reached his 60s, he realized he'd never held ajob and that at his current rate of spending, he would die apauper, leaving his two children nothing.At the time, Benarroch was living in a condominium at theCricket Club in North Miami where the maintenance fees alone cost$1,000 a month.Detectives said Benarroch saw no point in paying a premium thatwould cover a period after his death: June 20, 1997, the day hekilled himself, was two days before the next premium was due.Although he wouldn't invest in the death plot, Wyllner toldpolice he agreed to try to recruit a handful of tennisacquaintances to listen to Benarroch's offer.
But it never cametogether with the people they knew at their Fort Lauderdale tennisclub, Wyllner told investigators.People who heard the sketchy sales pitch assumed it was based onBenarroch having a fatal disease and concluded it was a scam sinceBenarroch seemed too strong on the tennis court to be dying,Wyllner told police.Although detectives in Georgia, Palm Beach County and FortLauderdale say they're certain Benarroch found the investors heneeded, no one admitted being one.
Two of Benarroch's friends saidBenarroch told them that a man in Venezuela had invested $100,000in the plan.Det.
Zealous said at least three of the insurance companies paidthe beneficiaries in the months following Benarroch's death.Because the suicide clauses had expired, the companies had to payunless they had another reason to withhold payment, detectivessaid.American General and Prudential confirmed paying a total of $11million to Benarroch's beneficiaries, but the other companies wouldnot comment.
Zealous said one company contested the validity of thecontract because a premium was either late or unpaid.Benarroch left $100,000 each to a girlfriend and to a closefemale friend he had once dated, and left the rest to his children,said Fort Lauderdale Det.
John King.
Benarroch's daughter, AliceBenarroch, 36, of North Miami, was executor of the will, and herbrother, Alan Benarroch, 34, of Venezuela, was to get money underthe condition that he divorce his wife whom his father disliked,the detectives said.
Neither sibling could be reached for commentlast week.But before the children could collect, the money went toCasablanca Investment Corp., a company in Grand Cayman, which theirfather organized to handle the estate, King said.
Detectives saidthey feel certain the children knew nothing of the plan.Wyllner told investigators Benarroch feared that if he killed LaBergere himself, he would be arrested and unable to pay hispremiums.
After La Bergere died, Benarroch gloated, but neverdirectly said he killed him or ordered a hit, Wyllner told Wingate.Benarroch and La Bergere, a vacuum cleaner salesman, had oncebeen friends with similar tastes and much in common.
They both hadsons named Alan, a love of tennis and a partnership in a Venezuelantennis club.
La Bergere even married and later divorced a womanBenarroch had dated.La Bergere's family told Wingate the two men became enemiesafter La Bergere discovered Benarroch stealing from the partnershipin the early '90s and informed their other partners.
There wereword wars in the Venezuelan media and legal battles that furtherdrained Benarroch's accounts, detectives said.
Benarroch wasfurious he'd been pushed out and was no longer allowed in his ownclub, Wyllner told detectives.In 1993, La Bergere received an unsigned death threat writtenfrom Benarroch's point of view and style; it vowed vengeance within10 years for having been cheated of $417,000 in the tennis clubventure, detectives said.About that time, Benarroch was also thought to have been theauthor of a death threat sent to Yuz of Fort Lauderdale, policethere said.
Yuz had encouraged Benarroch to invest in Premium SalesCorp., a Miami grocery trading company later accused of fleecinghundreds of investors out of more than $400 million, investigatorssaid.
Benarroch claimed to have lost $600,000 the last money hehad, King said.Yuz was gunned down in his Mercedes-Benz May 12, 1997,detectives said, by a man carrying a doll and wearing a fake beard.The shooting occurred exactly three months after La Bergere waskilled in Palm Beach County.When Palm Beach County detectives asked Benarroch to come in foran interview, Benarroch insisted he was innocent and referred themto his lawyer.
The attorney, another of his tennis acquaintances,turned down the interview request.Editor's question: A 1997 storysaid the lawyer did talk to police?
?By the time Yuz was killed, Benarroch didn't have the money tohire hit men, King said.
The detective said the property at theCricket Club had been foreclosed upon and Benarroch was moving fromone hotel to another; all but one of his credit cards had beenclosed for non-payment.Warm reports about Prince Charles have begun to blossom on bothsides of the Atlantic this summer.
Some little green fingerlingsof fact, like his contribution of a watercolor he painted of HongKong harbor to an auction this week at the New York Academy of Art gently suggest a creative spirit, a charitable heart.
But thereare big flattering images of princely purpose ripening into color,too.Such a shift in image can sometimes be the result of artfulpublic relations work, a careful mulching and watering of themedia.
The British press, chastened by the criticism of its pursuitof Diana, the princess of Wales, in the wake of her death, has beenin a mood to be receptive.
The image of England's remote,expensive, undisciplined royal clan was in dire need of freshening.There were also issues of personal character.
When Diana'straumatic death brought the monarchy's cold ineptitude into suchsharp relief, the perception of the prince had been crumbling,piece by piece, through almost two decades of marital scandal anddisintegration.
She had become an icon of glamour, motherhood andgood deeds.
His public persona had been reduced to that of aneccentric blunderer: unrequited in love and work, ineffectual infatherhood, moodily puttering in his garden.Now, as her presence fades and a collection of her ball gownsgoes on paid exhibition at the new Ronald Reagan Building inWashington, Prince Charles is beginning to enjoy a different kindof reputation.
With his enduring lover, Camilla Parker Bowles,somewhere out of sight, and the prince more often in view in thecompany of his sons, there seems to be a welling public regard forhim.He is seen as a protective father, an innovative manager of hisestates, a thoughtful man, a modest, candid future king.
In thewarmth of this summer, as his 50th birthday nears this fall, itseems the prince and his country are starting to graft.
After sucha long period of growing apart, it is a startling sight.SAN FRANCISCO Payne Stewart thought the man in his own twosomewould be the one to worry about Sunday at The Olympic Club.
So didthe gallery.
So did most of the media.
So did Melissa Lehman, whooften could not see over the fans to note the pain and frustrationon his husband's face.Again, the gods made their decision and Tom Lehman faded on aU.S.
Open Sunday, the victim of a cruel putter and possibly ofhistory, too.Lee Janzen had foiled Stewart before, by two shots in the 1993U.S Open with a record-tying score of 272 at Baltusrol.
On Sundayhe did it again, coming from as many as seven shots off the lead towin the 98th U.S Open.For all the complaining Stewart had done about landing in adivot filled with sand on the 12th hole or the USGA warning hereceived for slow play, all that really mattered in the end was the20-foot putt he stood over on the 18th hole.
For a second or two itlooked headed for the cup, but just broke off, securing the win andending Stewart's chance to force a playoff.While history might think otherwise, suggesting that the manwith the four-shot lead with a round to play indeed blew the U.S.Open, Stewart lobbied hard to note the quality of Janzen's2-under-68.
When the champion finishes at even par, all seemed toagree, the venue emerged as the real winner.Lehman, who has come up short for four straight U.S Opens,seemed the real victim.
When be bogeyed the 14th hole to drop to4-over, he knew his day was over.
The double-bogey at 17th was justadded pain.Janzen, who had not won a PGA Tour event in three years and blewhis opportunity to win a second Players Championship in March witha Sunday 79, was filled with emotion after the win.
That it came onFather's Day, with his dad Larry in the crowd and son Connorpresent, made for, well, an Olympic moment.Reggie Jackson was a player who knew how to stir up a laugh withhis one-liners as well as he could shake up a game with his bat.
Heonce demonstrated that agility with one quip after a game in whichhe struck out four consecutive times, but won it with a grand slamin his final at-bat.On Sunday the Mets had to feel much the way Jackson did on thatstar-crossed day.
Yes, they enjoyed a 3-2 victory over the FloridaMarlins, wonderfully punctuated by a game-saving performance byJohn Franco, who pitched the Mets out of a bases-loaded, no-outsjam in the top of the eighth inning.Franco celebrated by pumping his fist, thereby pumping up histeam.
After the victory, however, the reliever did not hesitate totake the team to task.
He questioned the Mets for their inabilityto salvage more from a stretch of games in which schedule makersall but gift-wrapped game-winning opportunities against Florida andMontreal, two of the weakest teams in the major leagues.Sunday's victory was the Mets' lone moment of triumph in anotherwise lost and debilitating three-game series against theMarlins.
That brought the Mets' now-completed 10-game run againstthe Marlins and Expos to 4-6.
That, the Mets know, is unacceptable.And the big boys are coming, in the form of the underachievingyet still potent Baltimore Orioles, who are host to the Mets Mondaynight, and the last team the Mets could possibly want to seeduring a time of struggle the Yankees.Before looking ahead, though, the Mets might take time tofitfully look back.
If there had ever been a chance to convinceeveryone, including themselves, that they are contenders as opposedto pretenders, the Expos and Marlins presented it, tied up withbright ribbons and bows.Such soft spots in the schedule have to be taken advantage of,if not feasted on.
Other teams, when given the chance this season,certainly have.
Five teams have been presented with the enticingopportunity to play the Expos and Marlins in consecutive series,and the Mets have failed to exploit the situation as well as theothers.Both the Cubs and the Brewers won six of seven and that wasbefore the Marlins further downsized to a minor-league caliberfranchise.The Yankees, who have to revel in any favorable comparison tothe Mets, faced consecutive interleague series against the Exposand Marlins and turned them into walkovers, winning five of sixgames.And no Met pretended that the famine turned into a feast, evenin victory Sunday, considering that one of the Mets' runs scored ona walk, a hit and a groundout and another on an error, a walk and awild pitch.
The offense remains missing in action.Sunday's formula worked.
Yet even though the Mets defeated therookie Joe Fonentot, who is without a victory in the major leagues,they had to know it was not in a way that was close to beingpalatable.
Not when a pitcher who entered the game with an 8.14earned run average pitched convincingly for seven innings,something he had done only twice before this season and never aboveClass AA.Monday night the battle resumes against teams capable ofoffering even greater resistance, and more than just saving facewill be at stake.
All because of the golden opportunities the Metsturned into dust.The United Automobile Workers' strike against General Motors inFlint, Mich., is an indication of just how deep distrust can stillrun in an industry where workers and management all too often haveseen each other as enemies whose every action is viewed withhostility.This strike began in that atmosphere.
Each side believes theother failed to live up to promises made more than a year ago.
Thecompany says workers are refusing to implement agreements toimprove productivity, while the workers accuse management of notmaking promised investments to improve the plant and fearmanagement secretly wants to move their jobs to Mexico or tononunion suppliers.Neither side thinks it can rely on the word of the other, andthere is no sign that the strike, which began June 5, will endsoon.
Workers and the company are suffering as the strike forces GMto close most of its North American assembly lines.For the workers themselves, there is no reason to fear losingtheir jobs.
The UAW's contract with GM guarantees that currentunion workers can keep working until they retire.
But GM's hourlywork force in America has been declining steadily with attrition,and is now less than half the level of two decades ago.
The workersfear their children will not have the opportunities they had to getwell-paid auto-industry jobs.With the American economy booming, GM is making money, a factthat makes it harder for the company to plead necessity as itpushes for higher productivity.
But the world auto industry hassubstantial overcapacity, and some kind of shakeout is probablyinevitable.
For American plants to continue to compete in makingaffordable cars, companies and workers must find a way tocooperate.
Ford and Chrysler have done a far better job of thisthan has General Motors, which is enduring its 16th strike in fiveyears.This strike will be settled at some point, and General Motorscars will again roll off the assembly lines.
But if the two sidesdo not find a way to change the atmosphere of distrust andhostility, the chances of GM's regaining its competitive edge andof being in a position to hire the children of current workers will not be good.NEW YORK The first time that Kym Hampton took the ball to thebasket, determined to challenge the Utah Starzz's 7-foot-2-inchcenter, Margo Dydek, Hampton admitted, she was as frightened andcurious to see the result as the 15,754 fans at Madison SquareGarden.
Giving away a foot to Dydek and even Hampton's teammates areskeptical of the 6-2 listed in her bio Hampton took the ball tothe basket and came away unscathed.
Once that worked, she did itagain and again, scoring a career-high 22 points to help theLiberty to a 68-64 victory.
It worked three times for Hampton before Dydek blocked one ofher shots, which was enough to lift the confidence of the centerand allow her to believe Coach Nancy Darsch's insistence that sheplay more aggressively.
Hampton greeted the coach's advice with awilling spirit but a dubious mind, facing the Women's NationalBasketball Association's version of Wilt Chamberlain, althoughDydek's game may be more similar to Shawn Bradley's.The Liberty, playing its first home game of the season after adismal 1-4 road trip, desperately needed something.
New York lostto Utah on Monday by 71-60.
The home-court advantage hardly seemedto provide an inspiration at the start as the Liberty fell behindby 10-2 and then by 15-4.
Dydek showed a deft shooting touch,hitting all five of her field goal attempts in the first half andadding a pair of free throws for 12 points.
But Hampton had 10points in the first half and the Liberty was able to close the gapto just three at the half, 32-29.
In the second half, Rebecca Lobo, who had just two points in thefirst half, got the Liberty started by scoring the team's firsteight points of the half for its first lead since 2-0.
Hamptoncontinued to work inside in the second half, while Dydek was unableto get her shot off.
Sidelined by foul trouble for much of thesecond half, Dydek attempted just one field goal and made it tofinish a perfect 6-of-6 from the floor.
But Hampton outscored herby 12-2 after halftime.
In the first meeting between these teams, Hampton had settledfor outside shots and was just 2-of-8 from the floor for fivepoints.
Lobo was 2-of-11 in that game, timid to bring the ballinside.Vickie Johnson, who had 17 points, gave the Liberty the lead forgood, 60-59, with a pair of free throws with 2 minutes 55 secondsto play.
Hampton scored inside around Dydek on the next possession,and Johnson followed that with a 3-point field goal from the cornerwith one second left on the 30-second clock to give New York a65-59 advantage.
Teresa Weatherspoon, who had eight assists and sixsteals, added a free throw and then Johnson swiped the Starzz'sinbounds pass and went the distance to complete an 11-0 run.But conditions Sunday were hardly ideal for the Astros, whofaced an unfavorable pitching matchup at least on paper andwent to battle without Billy Wagner and Doug Henry, their two toprelief pitchers.Not a problem.
The Astros scuffled their way to a win loadedwith redeeming value for pitchers Pete Schourek and Mike Magnante,who joined Trever Miller to stifle the Reds and help the Astroscomplete their first series sweep of Cincinnati since 1992.Schourek, who was coming off his worst outing of the season,pitched six solid innings to claim his fourth victory, and Magnanteretired the final two batters for save No.
1 a day after blowinga 5-2 lead and displaying faulty command.Wagner has a tired arm and was given the day off.
Henry has beensidelined for the first five games of a seven-game homestand withsoreness in his right elbow.
Both should be available tonight whenthe Astros open a two-game interleague series against Minnesota.Schourek left with a two-run lead after six innings, and Millerand Magnante made it stand up as the Astros won for the 11th timein their last 15 games.And this was no easy save.
With one out and two men on in theninth, Dierker traded lefties, lifting Miller for Magnante withAll-Star shortstop Barry Larkin coming up.Righthander Bob Scanlan was ready to enter the game, but Dierkeropted for Magnante, who got a weak ground ball from Larkin andstruck out switch-hitting Dmitri Young to end the game.With Wagner around, save opportunities are rare for othermembers of the Astros' bullpen.
Wagner has 18 of the team's 23saves, and Magnante isn't ready to replace his good buddy as thecloser.Albeit mild, Schourek was under pressure to perform in light ofScott Elarton's solid debut.
If Elarton continues to pitch well,the Astros might want to find a spot in the rotation for him, andSchourek has been the most inconsistent starter on the staff.
Inhis previous outing, a 9-4 loss to St. Louis, Schourek lasted justthree innings (six runs, five hits and a career-high seven walks).Although Schourek pitched for the Reds the past four seasons, hesaid he took no special pleasure in beating his former teammates.Sunday's game was a battle of Pistol Petes Houston's Schourekand Cincinnati's Harnisch, who also was working against his formerteam.Harnisch shot himself in the foot in the third inning when hehit Craig Biggio and put himself in position to face the heart ofthe Astros' order with one out.
Biggio moved to second on a singleby Bill Spiers and scored on Jeff Bagwell's base hit to left.Schourek, who threw a season-high 116 pitches, retired 12 of thefirst 20 batters he faced before the Reds got something going inthe sixth inning.
Young doubled and scored on a sacrifice fly bySean Casey.That proved to be the only run for the Reds, who left 12 men onbase and never collected more than one hit in any inning.Things began to fall apart in the sixth for Harnisch, whoallowed the first three batters to reach base.
Bagwell and MoisesAlou singled, and Carl Everett drew a walk to load the bases forTony Eusebio.Harnisch got Eusebio to hit into a double play, but Bagwell wasable to score for a 2-1 lead.
Ricky Gutierrez singled home Alou.From there, the bullpen and stellar defensive plays by Biggio,Spiers and Derek Bell were all the Astros needed to move to 18games over .500 (46-28).They are both students from Congo who fled to the United States,certain they would have been killed in the political turmoil athome.
Bakam Mimpongo, 21, was caught at New York's KennedyInternational Airport, trying to enter with fake papers.
BisinwaBorumbi, 22, stowed away in a cargo ship and was seized inJacksonville, Fla.Each gave similar accounts of persecution, of paramilitarygroups and rebels ravaging villages and taking prisoners, of theirdesperate need for asylum.But in the United States, their paths have sharply diverged.
Ms.Mimpongo spent five months and 10 days in a federal detentioncenter in New York City last year before being granted asylum.Borumbi, detained in Miami in February of this year, was freed onparole after three weeks, but his case has not yet been resolved.Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees point to thedifferent treatment of cases like these as a sign that federalimmigration laws are applied unevenly throughout the nation.Important decisions from how long it takes to review an asylumseeker's case to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detainedfor months seem to hinge more on the number of beds available ata detention center than on a cohesive national policy.The inconsistencies in granting parole are dizzying, saidCharles Wheeler, who monitors the cases of asylum seekersnationwide as the supervisor of the detention project at theCatholic Legal Immigration Network, a private advocacy group in SanFrancisco.In El Paso, Texas, he said, many asylum seekers have to postbond before being paroled.
In Los Angeles and New Jersey, asylumseekers are usually released, but only if family members willsponsor them.
In Miami, virtually everyone is released.
In NewYork, virtually no one is.A recently released study and interviews with more than a dozenlawyers and their clients confirm Wheeler's findings.
While someasylum seekers are allowed to argue their cases shortly afterarrival, others languish in detention for months, sometimessurrounded by convicted criminals in county jails.
Some arereleased after posting bond as low as $5,000, or simply byproviding the address where they plan to reside.While some women with children are released immediately, othersare held for months, separated from their children.
Lawyers saidthat clients with identical cases might be treated differently fromone month to the next.Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say that theseirregularities are an especially urgent issue now because theswiftness of deportations under the new law makes the need for agood, timely defense more critical than ever.Under the old law, people who requested asylum were allowed tostay in the country while their cases were heard by immigrationjudges.
If the judges ruled against them, they could appeal to theBoard of Immigration Appeals and then the federal courts, a processthat could take a year or more.Now, detainees are under pressure to prepare a compelling casequickly and lawyers say this is a difficult task for peoplebehind bars.
Instead of freely searching for lawyers and preparingtheir cases, detainees who do not speak English or know the laws ofthe United States must often wait for lawyers to spot them andvisit them at detention centers, usually out-of-the-way places thatresemble jails and afford little privacy.There is no way of knowing precisely how many people have beenaffected adversely by the law, because the federal government doesnot keep statistics of how many people who go through the newprocedures are denied asylum.
But asylum seekers are always a tinypercentage of the hundreds of thousands people who seek entry intothe United States every year.From August of last year through the end of January, forexample, 1,300 new arrivals expressed a fear to return home.
Ofthose, 1,066 were sent to detention centers; the rest weredeported.Karen Musalo, a co-director of the study, said that asylumseekers sometimes mothers and their children are routinely keptin detention in New York for months until a judge hears their case.That is what happened to Sivajini Kadambarathnam, 35, and her13-year-old son, Rajakumar.
The two were stopped on March 12, uponarrival at Kennedy Airport without documents from Sri Lanka, andordered detained, her immigration records show.
But because nochildren are allowed in the Wackenhut detention center in Jamaica,Queens, Rajakumar was sent to a center for juveniles in Miami.Immigration officials said they were willing to release the boy,but not the mother, to sponsors.
But the sponsor would not take theboy by himself, so the two remained in detention but separated, oneof her lawyers, Eileen Collins Bretz, said.
The INS said the twowere separated because minors were not allowed in the New Yorkdetention center.
Mrs. Kadambarathnam was granted political asylumand released June 2, after nearly three months in detention.
Herson had been released a day earlier.In Miami, where the influx of Haitian and Central Americanimmigrants seldom lets up, the Krome detention center routinelyreleases asylum seekers who can show they have a place to stay,said Stacey Taeuber, a pro-bono lawyer who works with detainees.The policy was different last year: to be released on parole,asylum seekers needed to post a $5,000 bond.One of Ms. Taeuber's clients was Gabriel Jaime Castano, 28, aColombian immigrant who said he had no intention of seekingpolitical asylum when he arrived at Miami International Airport inJanuary with a visitor's visa.
A farmer from near Medellin, Castanosaid he had gone to Miami to escape his country's violence for afew weeks.
He was tired of paying off both the army and theguerrillas with 20 live chickens a month to stay alive, hesaid.Immigration officers detained him because they did not believehe intended only to visit, Castano said.
After consulting withlawyers there, he said he realized that asking for political asylumwould get him out of detention faster than sticking to his originalclaim.That tactic would probably not have worked in New York.
When theWackenhut detention center fills up, asylum seekers are sent to adetention center in Elizabeth, N.J., or to the York County Prison,in York, Pa., said Mark Thorn, a spokesman from the INS office inNew York.Judy Epstein, a spokeswoman from the Hebrew Immigrant AidSociety, said that one of the agency's clients a 20-year-oldwoman from Ghana who has been detained for seven months wasrecently transferred to Pennsylvania.
The woman, Swaibatu Mohammed,told the agency that five other women were moved with her.In years to come, the INS intends to detain even more people asit builds more detention facilities, said Bergeron.
In doing so, hesaid, the agency would be following the mandate of Congress, whichsince 1996 has allocated $205.3 million to add 7,364 spaces to theagency's current detention capacity and 882 positions to itspayroll.Already, the INS has 15,000 beds in nine detention facilities,prisons and an array of local jails around the country, an 80percent increase from the number of beds available just three yearsago.
Yet, Bergeron said, to accommodate all the people the lawmandates be detained those who seek entry into the United Stateswith no papers or with fraudulent documents the agency will haveto double its current detention capacity.When the war ended, Palca worked as a publicity agent for 20thCentury Fox.
In 1950 Columbia Pictures agreed to finance his filmabout the Globetrotters.
Palca hired Sidney Poitier, who then owneda rib shop in Harlem, to star in the movie.
In fact, Palca said,part of the proof that he was a communist, the FBI told him, wasthat he had hired Poitier, a black man.The film, with Palca's name removed, was distributed by Fox.Palca gave the producing credit to his brother-in-law, AntonLeader, and the screen-writing credit to his cousin, Arnold Becker,a pediatrician.Palca is survived by Ms. Leader of Los Angeles; his wife, Doris,of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret Palca, of Brooklyn; a son, JoePalca, of Washington, and four grandchildren.TEHRAN, Iran The young woman flung off her head scarf and hungout the window of the blue Volkswagen, her long red hair flyingwild in the wind.Just behind was a police car with four officers, cheering andwaving at the crowd.
Iran had beaten the United States in the WorldCup in France, and in Tehran it was a moment for mad celebration,not Islamic punishment.In a massive communal celebration that froze traffic, freedspirits and cut across lines of class and gender, Iranians pouredinto the streets the moment the game ended at 1:30 Monday morning.Amid thousands of fans gathered in Vanak Square in central Tehran,a dozen men danced together, stringing the names of Iran's soccerstars into a rhyming chant.A man and a woman sat halfway out of their car windows andswayed to the American rock music that blared from their car.Another man climbed up a 20-foot lamppost as the crowd cheered anduniformed and plainclothes police officers and army troops lookedon.Old men strolled the streets in nightshirts.
Some women wavedflares and pounded on cars, ordering drivers to honk their hornsand cheer.
Other women went out on their balconies wearing onlynightgowns and slippers.In south central Tehran, a woman handed out sweets to strangersfor what she called a dual celebration.It was not a night for gloating.
One Iranian woman stopped andkissed an American visitor, assuring her that the victory wasnothing personal; another invited the visitor to her home for ameal.
President Mohammed Khatami sent a message of congratulationsto the Iranian team.The impromptu celebration was reminiscent of though muchsmaller than the street celebrations marking Iran's draw withAustralia late last year, which qualified Iran for the World Cupfinals for the first time in 20 years.
At that time, masses ofIranians left their jobs and their homes for exultantdemonstrations.This time, Iranian authorities took precautions to prevent anycelebrations or mourning from turning violent.
Restaurants inTehran were forced to close at 9 p.m. Sports centers were orderedto cancel plans to show the game on giant outdoor screens, and armytroops and plainclothes policemen were stationed at roadblocksthroughout the city.Throughout this soccer-crazed country, Iranians were riveted totheir television screens from the starting kickoff at 11:30 p.m.,cheering and grumbling as they watched.To ensure that the coverage was Islamically correct, thebroadcast began seven seconds late, so that Iranian viewers wouldnot be subjected to the sight of fans in summer dress who might bedrinking alcoholic beverages.When Hamid Reza Estili known as the James Bond of Iran scored the first goal, Iranians throughout Tehran werethunderstruck.
For one glorious moment, they had overtaken theUnited States on at least one playing field.Although Iranian officials greeted conciliatory words about Iranthis week by President Clinton and Secretary of State MadeleineAlbright with reserve, many Iranian citizens were delighted, adelight that was magnified in the magic moment after Iran scored.Soccer came to Iran decades ago via the two countries consideredmost imperialist here, Britain and the United States.
British oilworkers played the game in Abadan, and American and Britishmissionaries taught the game at their schools.After the young Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi played center forwardat his Swiss boarding school in the 1930s, soccer was elevated froma street sport to one worthy of the higher classes to play at theirprivate clubs.Some leaders of the revolution tried to squelch the sport,putting players in long pants and arguing about whether the gamewas anti-Islamic.
But that was difficult to do, because so manyclerics liked the game.
Even Khomeini's son, Ahmed, played on ateam in the holy city of Qum.LYONS, France The Iranian players shook hands with theAmericans before Sunday night's game, handed them white flowerssymbolizing peace and even posed together for a team picture.
Butfriendship extended only so far.
There was a soccer game to win,and not only did Iran prevail, 2-1, but this historic victoryknocked the United States out of contention in the World Cup.This was the first time that Iran and the United States had metin soccer and the first time that Iran ever won a game in two tripsto the World Cup.
The countries exchanged visits by theirOlympic-style wrestling teams this year, and have participated inthe Summer Games, but this was the most visible head-to-headsporting event between the two countries since the Islamicrevolution in 1979.In victory on Sunday night, Iranian players said it wassignificant to have defeated the Americans, and not necessarily forpolitical reasons.Although soccer's world governing body had feared thatprotesters would try to disrupt the game, just the oppositehappened, as fans of both teams seemed to go out of their way toshow that they could be courteous and friendly even if theirgovernments could not.
The only demonstration was a vigorous butpeaceful protest against Iran's Islamic regime, launched by severalthousand Iranian expatriates who smuggled T-shirts and banners intoGerland Stadium showing the pictures of two leaders of aParis-based opposition group called the National Council ofResistance.In Tehran, thousands of celebrating fans took to the streets,some women without their scarves, despite efforts by the Islamicregime took steps to make sure that the celebration was not asvociferous as it had been last November when millions took to thestreet in spontaneous celebration after Iran qualified for theWorld Cup for the first time in 20 years.Still, the Iranian players said they knew the ordinary people ofIran would be exultant.The match was played several days after President Clinton calledfor improved relations with Iran after 19 years of enmity betweenthe two countries, and followed a call in January by IranianPresident Mohammad Khatami for cultural exchanges between the twocountries.Dissidents also tried to capitalize on the forum by promotingtheir resistance group.
French police rushed into the standsseveral times to confiscate banners and new pictures celebratingthe two leaders of the National Council of Resistance, but newbanners and pictures kept popping up like mushrooms.
The oppositiongroup's influence is considered to be limited inside Iran, but thesize of the protest was undoubtedly an embarrassment to the Islamicregime.In the game's most surreal moment, the protesters waved theirT-shirts and banners jubilantly at halftime as the public addresssystem played the Macarena.
About 75 French policemen in riot gearmarched to one side of the field 10 minutes before the gameconcluded, but the Iranian fans left peacefully and ecstatically.While Iran (1-1) is expected to have its hopes of advancing tothe second round dashed on Thursday when it faces powerful Germany,at least it can dream.
The United States, which has lost both itsmatches and has scored but one goal in the two games, will now playYugoslavia on Thursday in a game that will have meaning only to theYugoslavs.Only the top two teams in the group will advance to the nextround and Germany, Iran and Yugoslavia each have four points, witheach winning a game for three points and tying one for onepoint.
With no points and only one game remaining, the UnitedStates has no hope.If the United States were a serious soccer country, Coach SteveSampson might have lost his job on Sunday night, as coaches fromSaudi Arabia and South Korea did in recent days.
But Rothenbergsaid Sampson would coach the team against Yugoslavia.
Sampson madefive lineup changes on Sunday night, scrapping the 3-6-1 formationhe had used in the opening 2-0 loss to Germany for a 3-5-2formation, with Brian McBride and Roy Wegerle at forwards and TabRamos, Frankie Hejduk and Joe-Max Moore assuming roles in midfield.Sampson wanted assertive play in attack after Monday's tentativeloss to Germany and on Sunday night the Americans hit the goalposttwice and the crossbar once and outshot Iran, 27-15, but could notscore until McBride's header for a goal in the 88th minute.
Infact, the Americans came forward so aggressively, took so manyrisks, that they were left completely out of shape on defense.In the 40th minute, with Claudio Reyna giving him far too muchroom, Iran's Hamid Estili headed a ball over the head of Americangoalkeeper Kasey Keller to give his team a 1-0 lead.
As the crowdof 35,500, made largely of Iranian fans, erupted, Estili kissed theground in celebration.Neither would Jalal Talebi, the Iranian coach who has lived for17 years in Palo Alto, Calif., and who took his current job onlyfour weeks ago after his team floundered with a defensive style.Before the game, fans of both teams shook hands and stoodtogether for pictures, draped in each other's flags, both in Lyons'sunbaked plazas and outside Gerland Stadium.
In a gesture offriendship, some fans even wore red, white and blue hatscelebrating the United States and red, green and white jerseys hatscelebrating Iran.Henry Jalali, a native of Iran who has lived for 25 years in SanFrancisco, where he works as a civil engineer said any victorywould be for the Iranian people, not the Islamic regime.
On Sundayhe wore an American handkerchief flag for a cap and an Iranianjersey.SAN FRANCISCO A few moments after realizing he had won theU.S.
Open Sunday, Lee Janzen wept.
Who could blame him?
The lastfour days at the Olympic Club had been emotional, grueling andrelentlessly challenging, so difficult that nobody finished thetournament under par.Even after Janzen made a phenomenal charge he trailed by sevenstrokes after the first three holes Sunday, and made four birdiesover the final 14 holes the torture was not over.
He had to sithelplessly and wait in the clubhouse as Payne Stewart lined up a20-foot birdie attempt at No.
18.
If the putt had fallen, Janzenand Stewart would have played an 18-hole playoff Monday.
ForJanzen, a Monday playoff would have at least have been better thansudden death Sunday.
After his final round, Janzen's knees wereweak.He didn't have to.
Stewart, who led for three days only to fallagonizingly short, barely missed his putt for birdie at No.
18.
Itbroke right to left and slid just a few inches in front of thehole, closing the door on Stewart and starting the tears forJanzen.
As he was hugged by his wife, Beverly, Janzen could finallyexhale.
For the second time in his career, he was a U.S. Openchampion, adding to his 1993 championship at Baltusrol and takinghome the first-place check of $535,000.Considering the circumstances, the comeback and the difficultcourse on which he prevailed, this one-stroke victory was thesweetest of Janzen's career.It was a crushing defeat for Stewart, the 1991 Open champion,who led after each of the first three rounds and who still led byfive strokes after his first three holes Sunday.
But fewfinal-round leads are safe at Olympic, the same course where ArnoldPalmer lost a seven-stroke lead on the back nine to Billy Casperduring the 1966 Open.Stewart shot his worst round of the tournament Sunday (74), andafter his birdie attempt on No.
18 missed, he admitted that he didnot play well enough to win.
It was a familiar feeling for Stewart,who also finished second to Janzen in the 1993 Open.As Janzen was walking back to take another tee shot, which wouldhave also cost him a penalty stroke, the ball dropped out of thetree.
Janzen returned to his ball, then, after reaching the back ofthe green in three shots, chipped in from about 20 feet to savepar.
And he felt the momentum might be changing.Meanwhile, Stewart was faltering.
He bogeyed No.
4 and No.
7,making the turn for the back nine at just 1 under par for thetournament.
Then when Janzen birdied No.
11 and No.
13 to pull toeven par for the tournament, Stewart had only a one-stroke lead.Things got worse for Stewart at No.
12, when his tee shot landed ina fairway sand divot.
Stewart said he had always felt that a playerwho hits in a sand divot should be given a free drop, instead ofplaying the ball from the divot.When Stewart bogeyed No.
13, Janzen had the lead for the firsttime in the tournament.
But Stewart responded with a birdie at No.14 to even the tournament again.
By this time, Tway and Tom Lehman,who finished tied for fifth at 286, had already fallen out ofcontention, while Nick Price, who finished fourth at 285, nevermade a charge.
It was a two-man race between Stewart and Janzen.And Stewart made his final costly mistake, a bogey at the par-5 No.16 to fall one stroke back, when he hit his third shot into abunker, chipped to 15 feet and then missed the putt.Meanwhile, shortly before Stewart finished at No.
16, Janzenmade a crucial par at the treacherous 17th hole, a hole that Janzendouble-bogeyed on both Friday and Saturday.After Janzen made par at No.
18, he had to wait for Stewart, whomade par at 17 and then fell short at 18.
But for Janzen, the waitwas worth it.
He had not won on the PGA Tour since 1995, and he hadmoments when he doubted himself.TOKYO Just two days before President Clinton departs forChina, financial markets in Asia reacted cautiously to politicaland diplomatic efforts over the weekend to stabilize Asia'scurrencies, in particular the Japanese yen.The yen dipped modestly in value against the dollar in earlyTokyo trading Monday, as currency traders showed somedisappointment that Japan offered only promises, but no specificmeasures, to revive its severely weakened economy.The Japanese currency weakened to 137.35 to the dollar, from136.10 yen in New York on Friday, erasing just a bit of the gainsbrought about by the intervention of the United States and Japanlast week.
Before the intervention, the yen had reached 144 to thedollar.Japanese stocks were also stable, with the Nikkei index of 225issues up 12.34, to 15,280.32, at midmorning.Traders were wary in selling off the yen because of fears thatthe United States and Japan will intervene in the currency marketsagain, as they did on Wednesday, to prop up the Japanese currency.They also seem to be concerned about being on the wrong side of abet if Japan does take steps to strengthen its economy and the yen.At a hastily called meeting Saturday of delegates from the Groupof Seven industrialized nations and 10 Asian nations, Japanreitererated its commitment to clean up the nation's bad bankingloans and to take steps to revive its economy.
But despiteexpectations, Japan offered no new or concrete plans.In what appeared to be an attempt to fend off an attack on theyen, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto held an emergency meetingMonday morning on the nation's bad banking loans with Koichi Kato,the secretary general of the governing Liberal Democratic Party.The meeting came as newspapers reported that a large Japanese bank,the Long-Term Credit Bank, which is saddled with billions ofdollars in bad loans, was desperately looking for a rescue mergerto escape collapse.A further rapid decline of the yen would threaten financialstability in Asia and could escalate the economic turmoil in theregion to a new level, particularly if China moved to devalue itscurrency.Asian leaders have been unnerved by the prospect of Chinadevaluing its currency.
A devaluation by China could lead to around of devaluations around the region, as other countries aim tocheapen their exports, which have been a main source of recovery inAsia.President Clinton said on Friday that the impact of currencyinstability on China played an important role in the decision byUnited States authorities to intervene and support the value of theyen last week.China itself seems to have tried to bring about some coordinatedresponse on the decline of the yen and had publicly voiced concernover the tumbling yen in the last two weeks.In previous months, China had repeatedly pledged to theinternational community that it would not devalue its currency tosupport its exports.
But as the yen tumbled in the last couple ofweeks, Dai Xianglong, China's central bank governor, suggested oncethat China may be wavering in that commitment.But some economists point out that it is also not fully in theinterests of China to devalue its currency because a game ofcompetitive devaluations would erode profits in China as well aseverywhere else.
China, for instance, has a substantial amount ofloans in United States dollars, so that any devaluation wouldimmediately make those loans more expensive to pay back.Partly for that reason, some economists have downplayed the rolethat a potential Chinese currency devaluation played in thedecision last week by U.S. authorities to intervene to support theyen.The debut signals that Disney's status as the kingpin ofanimation is likely to continue even amid stepped-up efforts byrivals.
The average fee for a bounced check is now $21.36, up from$20.80 last October, according to a March survey of 350 U.S. banksby Bank Rate Monitor.
Eight of the Top 10 banks charge noncustomers who use theirautomated teller machines, and 55 percent of all U.S. banks imposesuch surcharges, up from 48 percent in October.
Late payment and over-the-limit fees on credit cards have eachjumped from an average of $13 to about $20 in just 18 months,according to RAM Research.Some big banks including Fleet, First Union and Mellon nowcharge as much as $25 to close a credit card account.
Others chargea $15 dormancy fee on accounts that are inactive for six months.
Ifyou get a cash advance on a credit card, expect to pay up to 5percent of the withdrawn amount in fees.Banks still make more money on interest income the spreadbetween what they charge on loans and what they pay on deposits than on customer fees.
But the interest-rate spread is narrowing, as banks facegrowing competition from brokerage firms and mutual funds forcustomer assets.To make up for smaller spreads, banks are raising old fees andcoming up with new ones.
As a result, fee income is rising fourtimes faster than interest income and now accounts for nearly 40percent of bank income compared to about 32 percent a decade ago.
On balance, banks are still raking it in.
In the first quarterof this year, U.S. bank profits soared 10 percent over the previousyear to a record $15.9 billion, according to the Federal DepositInsurance Corp.Since most of us do use banks, here are some steps you can taketo avoid fees.
Despite all the mergers, there are still more than 9,000commercial U.S. banks.
There also are savings and loans,brokerages, mutual funds and other options for financial service.The 300 biggest banks often offer greater convenience and biggerATM networks than their smaller competitors .
But on average, theyimpose 15 percent higher fees for deposit accounts than smallerbanks, according to U.S. Public Interest Research Group.Banks that offered the most expensive accounts in March wereCitibank of San Francisco and NationsBank, which recently agreed tobuy Bank of America, according Florida-based Bank Rate Monitor.Marin building contractor William Kopiecki said he reads monthlystatements carefully and raises a ruckus if there's a problem.
Herecently noticed that it took eight to 11 days for two checks hewrote totaling $15,500 to be credited to his account at MBNA afterthey were debited from his account at Citibank.
After spotting thelong lag and complaining to Citibank, he was assured he would getmuch of his lost interest returned.For instance, if you rarely visit a teller, opt for an accountthat offers unlimited checking, low minimum balance requirementsand low or no monthly fees as long as you bank by ATM, phone orpersonal computer.If you have one of these accounts and do end up using a liveteller when you could have used an ATM, you'll pay a fee that isusually about $3 but could be as much as $9.50, according to BankRate Monitor.Even for full-service accounts, banks will often reduce oreliminate fees if you maintain multiple accounts, keep a minimumbalance like $1,000 in your checking account or sign up for directdeposit of your paycheck or Social Security payments.The best credit card strategy is to pay off your bills eachmonth, thereby benefitting from use of the money (or float) duringthe free grace period and no interest or fees.Web sites that carry information on checking and credit cardrates and fees include Bank Rate Monitor (www.bankrate.com), RAMResearch (www.ramresearch.com) and Consumers' Checkbook(www.checkbook.org).
P RSatan,S just like in MatthewUs gospel, was foiled againyesterday.
P Hopefully for U.S. soccer, this humbling wonUt end up insomeoneUs sermon2,000 years from now.
P For the proud niche of soccer fans in theUnited States, there should becomfort in knowing that their grand game did not disgrace thenation yesterday in Lyon, France.
P No.
By the time that the clockran out on IranUs 2-1 victory, much of theAmerican viewing audience was either (A) napping or (B) watchinggolf on TV.
P Ten years of trying to pick up the game by itskneesocks, of bidding forand then successfully staging the U94 World Cup, of trying to builda U.S. team that could earn respect on the world stage Q and thisis what they get?
P In Iran, where they once referred to us asRThe Great Satan,S the victoryprompted midnight prayers and dancing in the streets.
The Iraniansscored two goals, but huge points more for their sportsmanship andthe heart that they showed.
P Here at home, alas, it was hard toswallow.
In terms of a future Q readRcorporate dollarsS Q the defeat may not have delivered a deathblow to soccer in this country.
But at the moment, consider it downand bleeding.
P For one day, soccer had the U.S. viewing audiencemostly to itself.
Peoplewho didnUt know a soccer ball from a frozen ham suddenly had astoryline they could sink their teeth into.
A Ted Koppel kind ofgame.
To a lot of Americans, still, mention of Iran brings backmemories of the hostage crisis, the Ayatollah Khomeini and U.S.flags being burned in the Tehran streets.
P And what?
You saidTeam USA was heavily favored?
P You bet they watched.
P But it was more of the same, wasnUt it?
The U.S. playersUinability to putthe ball in the net turned into a night of frustration.
They hitthe crossbar.
They hit the goalposts Q three times.
And now, afterone more World Cup match, they will hit the road.
P Spare thee-mails, please.
TheyUve become trite.
P After I penned a fairly light-hearted piece 12 days ago, teasinghow theWorld Cup gets lost in the U.S. translation, I received a spate ofelectronic dispatches rife with name-calling and high-handed piety.
P Ron Pitney of Arlington wrote, RYour refusal to learn the gameamounts tointellectual bankruptcy and until you take the time to reallyunderstand the Tgame within the gameU you really should limit yourcomments to those sports you understand!S P Ah, yes, the Rgamewithin the gameS of soccer.
At least two of the e-mailwriters claimed that soccer is now the preferred sport ofRintelligent people,S and thus they understood perfectly why onlythey grasped its nuances Q and, apparently, I didnUt.
P While theywere memorizing Chaucer, I suppose, they must have missed thefact that nowhere in the earlier column did I say I didnUt likesoccer, the apparent Official Game of Mensa.
I simply strove tomake points about the World CupUs lack of scoring, particularly theU.S.
teamUs.
And while praising World Cup U94 for its success,despite the rest of the worldUs skepticism, I noted how the greatevent still doesnUt captivate the same throngs on our shores.
P Suddenly, I think I was on the same mailing list as SalmanRushdie.
P RYou people are morons if you canUt see that soccer is HUGE withaneducated segment of the population,S read one of the unsignednotes.
P I give up.
What donUt we morons understand?
P ThereUs offsides.
ThereUs corner kicks.
There are yellow cardsand redcards.
Soccer is not rocket science.
As has been proven many timesat the World Cup, the coaches donUt even need to speak the playersUlanguage.
P The best e-mail comment, as it turned out, came from atruly eruditegentleman named Norm Biven.
He called my attention to thecommercial that Nike is running during the Cup telecasts.
It showsthe defending world champs from Brazil stuck during a flight delayat the Rio airport.
They begin playing with the soccer ball, whilea samba from Sergio Mendes plays in the background.
P They and theball go through X-ray machines, under taxiing jet wings, downbaggage ramps, before the worldUs best player, Ronaldo, finisheswith a footwork exhibition that would make the Globetrottersenvious.
The punch line is that Ronaldo gets to the terminal gate,kicks Q and clangs it off the metal post.
P The kids watchingfrown.
Ronaldo shrugs.
P RJust because RonaldoUs shot clangs off the post at the enddoesnUt make itany less entertaining,S Biven wrote.
RItUs not the scoring.
ItUsthe samba, silly.S P I know.
But again, thanks to days likeyesterday, it gets lost in thetranslation.
P Americans love underdogs, but they enjoy winningmore.
The samba is fine,but the preferred tune, last time I checked, was I We Will RockYou.
P TennisU Davis Cup was big once here, too Q until the United Statesstarted losing it.
P U.S. soccer blew it big time yesterday.
ItdoesnUt take a genius to seethat itUs going to be a tough four years.There are about 165,000 ATMs in the United States and theyhandle 900 million transaction a month, or nearly double the numbera decade ago.Despite all the publicity about ATM fees, cash machines have yetto be the financial windfall so many banks expected.An average-sized bank might spend $20 million to $25 million ayear on a network of 1,000 ATMs, according to McKinsey.
That's anet cost of $20,000 to $25,000 per machine after taking intoaccount fees charged to customers and other banks.It's not surprising that ATMs are expensive to buy, maintain andkeep stocked.
Average annual operating costs per machine, includingtransaction processing expenses, depreciation and maintenance, runabout $41,000 per year.
But total revenue is only about $18,000,according to McKinsey.That's a shortfall of $23,000 per machine which banks are tryingto reduce by selling products such as stamps and imposingtransaction fees.Despite an unprecedented wave of mega-mergers, there are stillmore than 9,000 U.S. commercial banks and the number of branchesactually climbed from 41,881 in 1984 to 59,091 last year.In 1985, McKinsey consultant Asheet Mehta said it cost banks$11.60 per month to serve the average retail customer for 6.3transactions, including 4.4 visits to the bank and 1.9 visits to anATM.
In 1993, it cost $14.80 to serve the average customer for 10.8transactions a month, including 3.3 at an ATM and 5.3 inside thebank.In 1995, U.S. commercial banks spent $20 billion on technologyand by the year 2000 the annual investment is expected to hit $25billion.
It is true that serving customers with new technologyhelps lower transaction costs.
For example, Mehta says it costsbanks an average of $2.50 if you talk to a teller versus 40 centsif you use an ATM, 24 cents if you use a telephone voice responseunit and 10 cents if you bank by PC.Some banks, including Wells Fargo, sell stamps for an 11 percentmarkup as well as ski-lift and other tickets to help make endsmeet.Banks stress that they are not public utilities, that no one isforced to use their ATMs and they are entitled to charge for theconvenience they offer.
Nevertheless, there has been an outcryagainst surcharges and Senate Banking Committee Chairman AlfonseD'Amato, R-N.Y.) has even called for a ban against them.ISLAMORADA, Fla.
Surrounded by a forest of West Indianhardwood and exquisitely blue waterways, Juanita Greene'sefficiency cottage in Key Largo seemed an idyllic place in which topass her retirement years.So less than two months ago, she moved to the greater Miamiarea, to a neighborhood she describes as quiet and peaceful.Now, new regulations governing the use of the personalwatercraft in the Keys, one of the United States' most popularwater-sports locations, seek to prevent other residents fromfollowing Ms. Greene's example.On June 10, the Monroe County Commission approved an ordinancethat prohibits operating the craft within 1,200 feet of 14 beachesand resort spots from Key West to Key Largo.
The personalwatercraft moored on such shores must idle out to the perimeterarea at speeds of about five miles an hour to avoid making wavesand noise.But Karen Lee, an environmental advocate who pushed for curbs onpersonal watercraft, said the measure covers only 2 percent of theshoreline of the Keys.
Although some of it is residential, otherparts are wildlife sanctuaries.The association, which represents five manufacturers of personalwatercraft, plans to file suit in a federal court asking that theordinance be repealed, Ms. Mathews said.
She would not disclose theterms of the complaint.Some areas, like Duck Key, have asked to have their watersincluded in the ordinance, and the County Commission will reviewthose requests next month.The state of Florida has already banned personal watercraft inseveral areas, including the Everglades, but similar restrictionsin the tourist-dependent Keys have met strong opposition.
Theislands have 65,000 permanent residents but about 3 milliontourists each year.
The recent vote followed two years of studiesand heated debate that pitted some who favored a ban on thewatercraft against industry representatives who opposed curbs.One in every three new boats sold in the country is a personalwatercraft, the Boat Owners Association of the United States said.Last year, more than 36 percent of recreational boating accidentsin Florida involved personal watercraft, compared with less than 15percent in 1990, according to the Florida Marine Patrol.Industry representatives in the Keys have said that personalwatercraft should face the same rules as other watercraft ratherthan being singled out.
They have maintained that education is thebest way to ensure that such watercraft are used in a safe and lessobtrusive way.Ms.
Mathews, the industry representative, said manufacturerswould begin next year to produce lines of vehicles that make about50 percent less noise.
But, she added, personal watercraft alreadymeet federal and state sound regulations.Mayor Jack London of Monroe County, which comprises the Keys,said the new ordinance might be extended to compel businesses thatrent personal watercraft to require that customers demonstrateexperience.Among those applauding any restrictions on personal watercraftare the local fishermen, whose prey redfish, bonefish and tarpon are frightened from their grasp every time a personal watercraftturns the still, shallow sea-grass flats where they dwell into theequivalent of a hurricane.The trick is to hook computers together over existing phonewires so family members can surf the Web together, share printersor shoot one another in computer game competitions.The Home Phoneline Networking Alliance enjoys support from suchgiants as Advanced Micro Devices, ATT, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard,IBM and Intel Corp.
It promises to get inexpensive home networkingtechnology into stores by the fourth quarter of 1998 in time forholiday shopping sprees.As many as 15 million U.S. households already have two or morePCs, but only a tiny fraction have networks to link them up.
Amajor deterrent is the complexity and mess of wiring up old houses a job that can easily cost as much as a new computer if done by acontractor.If the alliance has its way, consumers will be able to create aninstant network simply by plugging their computers into a phonejack.
They will need to install a special network card into theircomputer or buy an inexpensive device that connects between aparallel or USB port and a phone jack.Such devices are expected to cost under $100 per computer, saidCyrus Namazi, a marketing manager at AMD in Sunnyvale and chairmanof the alliance.Tom Rhinelander, an analyst with Forrester Research inCambridge, Mass., said he projected that more than 7 million U.S.homes will have computer networks by the year 2002.The alliance is embracing technology devised by Tut Systems inPleasant Hill, a privately held company founded in 1991 by MartinGraham and Matt Taylor, a professor and graduate student at theUniversity of California at Berkeley.Three weeks ago, Tut announced that it received $15 million innew investments from three strategic partners: Microsoft Corp.,Tokyo-based Itochu International, and ATT Ventures.
Microsoftannounced a marketing alliance with Tut last year.A Sunnyvale startup, Epigram, is working on phone networkingtechnology operating at 10 megabits per second, equal to the speedof most common corporate networks.
Epigram is a founder of thealliance.Many other companies are pushing alternative home networkingstrategies.
Utah-based Intelogis Inc., for instance, sells devicesfor under $100 that plug into electrical sockets in the wall andsend data over home power lines.
But its network tops out at 350kilobits per second and requires encryption to prevent neighborsfrom picking up the signals on their power lines.In March, the Home Radio Frequency Working Group, which includessome of the same players in today's announcement, said it wouldpromote wireless home networks, using radio links to connectcomputers, printers and other devices.A Southern California startup, ShareWave, promises this fall tomake available this wireless equipment capable of multimegabitspeeds, but the cost is likely to be several hundred dollars percomputer.
Its technology could be useful for reaching rooms with nophone jacks or mobile computer users lounging by the pool.
P SAN FRANCISCO Q The Olympic Club added to its U.S. Openlegacy yesterdaywhen another 54-hole leader stumbled down the stretch and lost thetournament.
P For those counting at home, the course is nowfour-for-four in producingdramatic, comeback winners at the Open.
The latest to fall, PayneStewart, added his name to a list that also includes Ben Hogan(1955), Arnold Palmer (1966) and Tom Watson (1987).
All were reeledin at Olympic by players with fewer career victories on the PGATour.
P RIUd say the golf course won.
The golf course lived up toits reputation,SStewart said after flushing a four-stroke lead in the final roundand losing by a stroke to Lee Janzen.
P Stewart joined Tom Lehman,his final-round playing partner, as the twosympathetic characters in the latest Olympic melodrama.
P Unableto control his driver down the stretch, Stewart hit his fewestnumber of fairways (six) and greens in regulation (nine) of anyround during Open week while ballooning to a 74.
Lehman, asentimental favorite who was playing in the final group at the Openfor a fourth consecutive year, fell short once again in his Openquest with a closing 75.
P RI said [Saturday] that if I played thetype of game Payne Stewart canplay, IUd be standing here with the trophy.
And I didnUt do that,SStewart said.
RPlus, Lee Janzen shot 68 on a day when nobody elsein contention could break par.
He deserves to win.
P RIUmdisappointed.
But this isnUt going to change my life.
I didnUt playwell enough to win.
ItUs as simple as that.
And it wonUt take mevery long at all to get over this.
IUll still be able to sleeptonight.S P Lehman indicated he may be missing a few winks for theforeseeable futurebecause he was Rirritated with myselfS after falling short in theOpen for a fourth consecutive year.
The failed 54-hole leader atthe past three Opens, Lehman began yesterdayUs final round fourstrokes in back of Stewart and never made a birdie.
P He placedfifth, which comes on the heels of finishes of third (1995),second (1996) and third (1997).
P By his calculations, Lehmannever gave himself a decent birdie chance untilthe 11th hole.
Then, he failed to capitalize on three in a row.
P RBy the time I made bogey on 14, I knew I was history,S Lehmansaid.
RForthe last two days, IUve had the hardest time reading the greens.
Icould never tell if we were going uphill or downhill.
Therefore, Inever came close to making one.S P Lehman left the coursedisplaying a unique mix of iron-willed determinationand heart-tugging frustration.
P RIf I can keep playing this wellin this tournament for the next four orfive years, I think IUm going to win one.
Or two, or three orfour,S Lehman said.
RBut the last thing I want to do right now isplay golf.
This is a big tournament and IUm disappointed.
IUm alittle bit irritated with myself.
ItUs very frustrating to gothrough this again, IUll be honest with you.S A: A number of states such as Colorado and New Hampshire havelaws prohibiting discrimination against people for lawfulactivities such as smoking.But California isn't one so those two firms did have a rightto reject you for being a smoker.Companies have a lot of leeway in deciding whom to hire as longas they don't discriminate on the basis of race, gender, religion,age, sexual orientation or disability.
Ideally, firms base theirhiring decisions on things like competence or credentials.
Butother subjective factors often come into play, too from thepersonal rapport that a candidate establishes with the boss to acandidate's appearance or mannerisms.It's certainly harder to be a smoker in the workplace today.California law bans smoking in workplaces with five people or more.Some places like North Miami, Fla., have even passed laws barringsmokers from working for city government, in an effort to improveemployees' health and cut insurance costs.You should take a hard look at whether smoking was the realreason you didn't get those jobs.
Maybe something else in yourattitude or background turned the companies off, and they wereusing smoking as an excuse.Or maybe you really do need to deal with an odor problem becauseof your smoking.
Q: My company recently adopted a new rule saying that if youtake time off, it must be a minimum of four hours.
There are timeswhen I need just one or two hours off for personal business, butthey say I must take a full four hours.
They say this new system iseasier for the timekeeper.
Don't we as employees have a right totake off small amounts of time?
A: Companies must pay their workers for all the time theyactually put in.
So if you took two hours off and the companydocked your pay as if you'd taken four hours off, that would beillegal.
You could file a complaint with the California LaborCommissioner, at (415) 557-7878.But that doesn't sound like the case here.
The company isdocking you four hours' pay, but it's also telling you to take offthe full four hours.
So you don't have a legal claim for unpaidwages.Nor do you have any legal right to take off an hour here orthere for personal business.Requiring workers to take time off in four-hour blocks may benecessary in a factory setting, Bradstreet said, if replacementworkers must be hired by the half-day or full-day.But otherwise, a policy like this actually might end up hurtingthe company by keeping workers off the job for more time thannecessary, and by undermining the morale of employees who feel thatthey're being unfairly treated.
Q: I was hospitalized because of complications with apregnancy in 1990.
At the time, my employer told me that I didn'tqualify for any kind of disability benefits and that my only choicewas to resign.
I followed his advice and submitted my resignationletter.
Now I've learned that not only should I have receiveddisability, but I also should have been rehired after my illness.
Ilost almost $10,000 because of this.
Do I have any recourse?
A: Back in 1990, the state and federal laws requiringcompanies to give their employees 12 weeks off for serious illnessweren't yet in effect.But California did have a pregnancy disability law requiringcompanies with five or more employees to provide four months ofunpaid leave to employees who are disabled by pregnancy.If you'd known about that law, you could have taken unpaid timeoff to recover from your hospitalization without losing your job.You also could have applied for state disability insurance, whichwould have paid part of your salary while you were off work.Unfortunately, so much time has passed that now it's too late totry and recover damages from your employer for misinforming youabout your rights.The lesson here?
If you think you've been denied family ormedical leave illegally, talk to a lawyer or file a complaintwithout delay.Equal Rights Advocates offers free advice and counseling onwomen's employment issues, at (800) 839-4372.
So does the Women'sEmployment Rights law clinic of Golden Gate University, at (415)442-6647.
And the Employment Law Center offers free legal advice toboth male and female low-income workers at (415) 864-8208.Send your work and career questions to Ilana DeBare, Workways,San Francisco Chronicle, 901 Mission St., San Francisco 94103.
Orsend e-mail to workways sfgate.com.
Or call (415) 764-2815.
Wecan't respond to each query in person, but we will answer as manyin print as we can.
NEW YORK Detectives are searching for a 25-year-old manaccused of stabbing his former girlfriend in her family's home inMiddle Village, Queens, Sunday morning and then turning the knifeon the woman's parents, killing her mother, when they tried torescue her.Deputy Inspector Martin Johnson of Queens detectives said policewere searching for Heather Grech's former boyfriend, RobertParsell, who they believe committed the crime after his attempt toreconcile with Ms. Grech failed.Detectives said that Parsell, a milk truck driver, apparentlywas upset after Ms. Grech left him last week and moved, with their1{-year-old son, back to her parents' home at 69-26 61st Rd.,police said.
He grew desperate Saturday, they said, when he heardthat she had been seen with another man.At that point Ms. Grech's older brother, David, awoke to thesound of screams, ran downstairs and chased Parsell out of thehouse, police said.The brutal crime stunned neighbors in Middle Village, a quietcommunity of two-family homes.
Anne Russo, 35, said she was walkinghome from a diner with her boyfriend when she saw Tristan Grech runout of his house, bleeding from his arms and shoulders.Neighbors said Kathleen Grech worked as a bookkeeper inManhattan and that her husband worked as a limousine driver.
Theyworshiped regularly at Our Lady of Hope Roman Catholic Church.
OnSunday, a priest from the church went to the house to administerlast rites to Mrs. Grech.Heather Grech and Robert Parsell had been dating since she was astudent at the Mary Louis Academy, neighbors said.
Police said Ms.Grech had tried to leave him before, but they added that they hadnever received reports of domestic violence.For the last two months they lived in a three-bedroom apartmenton the second floor of a house at 64-30 65th Place.
Neighbors theresaid they disliked Parsell, whom they described as antisocial, butadded that they were surprised to hear he was wanted for murder.Because of its strong store sales and easy-to-understandbusiness, Restoration Hardware may have single-handedly restored amodicum of faith in the withering initial offering market.The IPO for the Corte Madera-based home furnishings retailersprang out of the box Friday with a vengeance.
After pricing sharesat $19 a dollar higher than anticipated by underwriters Restoration closed its first day of trading at an impressive $26.25a share.And while a 38 percent rise on the first day of trading isoutstanding by almost any measure, the jump is particularlyimpressive since it arrives amid a moribund IPO climate.For one thing, it's not really a hardware store at all.
While itstarted in Eureka 18 years ago as a seller of decorative doorknobsand hard-to-find drawer handles for folks refurbishing old homes,the company now with 44 stores in 21 states has evolved into aninnovative merchant of stylish home furnishings that don'tnecessarily cost an arm and a leg.You can bet that mall developers and landlords can.
They are inlust with the retailer and its customers' wallets.
In fact, bothmall and strip center developers are interested in bringingRestoration to their projects, which gives the merchant a bundle ofopportunities to open new stores in some of the choicest spots inthe country.
Many retailers are typecast as suitable only forregional malls or just strip centers, but seldom both, retailanalysts say.
But Restoration busts through that barrier,essentially allowing the company to double its options for choosinglocations.And because adding more stores is critical to the performance ofmost retail stocks, prime real estate locations can drive acompany's sales and profits.In many cases, the amount of rent paid by retailers is linked totheir sales performance.
And in recent years, the registers havebeen ringing big-time at Restoration's stores.
Check out thesenumbers:For the fiscal year ended January 31, Restoration's averagesales per square foot of selling space were $583.
In comparison,stores in the top malls in the country report sales of $400 to $450per square foot, says Location-net's Huber.Last year, Restoration recorded sales of $97.9 million andoperating profits of $3.2 million.
And the all-important same-storesales figures have risen an average of 19 percent annually duringthe past two fiscal years.What's more, Restoration plans to open 25 new stores by the endof this fiscal year and another 30 stores in 1999.
But there is some potential danger.
While aggressive growthis good in the eyes of fund managers, especially during a boomingeconomy, it also presents risk.
Restoration doesn't have a longtrack record showing that it can roll out new stores at such arapid clip.
Cloning the culture of the stores is essential forsuccessful expansion.The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for rerunson AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPIDataNews.KOSOVO-REBELS (Junik, Serbia) War has a choreography that onlyits participants understand.
Fighters, locked in an embrace, feelout the daily beat and rhythm until the set is shattered by a surgeof anarchic violence.
Such a dance is underway in Kosovo, wherearmed peasant farmers, joined by hundreds of rebels that havepicked up weapons and uniforms over the border in northern Albania,face down some 50,000 government soldiers and special police.
ByChris Hedges.CHINA-CLINTON-ASSESS As Clinton prepares for his summit inChina, the central foreign policy drama in Washington is theincreasing congressional furor over the administration's engagementpolicy, in particular the sense that Clinton is damaging nationalsecurity in his eagerness to boost relations with Beijing.
BySteven Erlanger.CENTENARIANS (Phoenix) Centenarians aren't what they used tobe.
There are so many between 30,000 and 50,000, according todemographers, up from the 1980 estimate of 15,000 that it's hardto get a televised 100th birthday greeting from Willard Scott, whomentions 12 every week on the Today Show.
Every week about 90 newcentenarians are disappointed.
Centenarians are the country'sfastest growing age group, with projections that by the middle ofthe next century more than 600,000 Americans will be over 100.
BySara Rimer.CLINTON-STARR Five months after investigators began exploringallegations of a relationship between Clinton and Monica Lewinsky,the former White House intern's new lawyers appear to have returnedto the same standoff with Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel,that her previous lawyers confronted.
Details of the negotiationsbetween Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's legal team, which appeared Sundayin the Washington Post and were confirmed by people with knowledgeof the investigation, suggest that the two sides are still far froman agreement that would lead to her testimony.
By David E. Sanger.CONGRESS-SPEND A curtain-raiser on the appropriations process,which is finally under way in both houses, with floor votes tostart soon.
These are the only bills Congress must pass, so here'sa look at what's in them, what are the likely collisions, House vs.Senate and Congress vs. White House.
By Katharine Q. Seelye.INFLATION-PRICES (Undated) While inflation over all is at itslowest rate since the 1960s, prices have been rising rathernoticeably in recent months for a variety of everyday items fromfast-food hamburgers to auto maintenance and dental care.
Theincreases have been sharp enough not only to catch people'sattention but to provoke their annoyance.
By Louis Uchitelle.IBM-CHIPS (Undated) Without fanfare but with potentiallyfar-reaching significance for the semiconductor industry, IBM hasbegun the industry's first large-scale production of a type of chipthat may reduce prices and improve performance and portability forcellular phones and other wireless communications devices.
By JohnMarkoff.VH1-MEDIA (Undated) In the four years since John Sykes tookover, cable channel VH1 has found a formula that has significantlyincreased its ratings and driven up profits.
Indeed, VH1 has thehighest concentration of advertisers' most desirable viewers, thoseaged 18 to 49.
As a result, advertisers from American Express toLexus have added VH1 to their buying plans.
By Bill Carter.SMART-CARDS-SECURITY (Undated) For the last year, Paul Kocherhas kept big credit-card companies and banks on edge by sharingdetails of his discovery of a way to break into the newest versionof smart cards credit-card size devices that contain a tinycomputer chip and can be used for a variety of purposes includingstoring so-called digital cash.
By Peter Wayner.TIME-CNN-MEDIA (Undated) Doubts about the accuracy of a recentarticle in Time magazine that was written by Cable News Networkjournalists are serious enough that Time's editors have ordered afurther investigation.
The article asserted that the U.S. militarydropped lethal nerve gas on a Laotian village in 1970, during theVietnam war, as part of a secret mission to kill Americandefectors.
By Lawrie Mifflin.DIGICOM-COLUMN (Undated) In a climate where any regulation ofthe Internet in its commercial infancy is considered high treason,many law experts are dismayed at the tidal wave of restrictivelegislation governing everything from software filters to digitalcopyrights and public-domain information being drafted andenacted by states and the federal government.
By Denise Caruso.BERKSHIRE-MARKETPLACE (Undated) It could be Warren Buffett'sbiggest challenge yet.
Not the acquisition of General Re Corp., thereinsurance giant that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to buy lastweek for $21.7 billion in stock.
Rather, his taking on the oftenunruly Wall Street professionals who, as part of the deal, willbecome holders of 15 percent of the shares of Berkshire Hathaway,Buffett's far-flung corporate empire.
By Edward Wyatt.TAX-REFORM (Topeka, Kan.) The new way that taxes are collectedin this Midwest state capital may offer taxpayers everywhere aglimpse of what the future may be like in dealing with the InternalRevenue Service.
By David Cay Johnston.SAN FRANCISCO Tom Lehman had hoped, finally, to close thecircle that had opened here at Olympic in the 1987 U.S. Open.
Buthe didn't.As Lee Janzen won the 98th Open Sunday, Lehman again emerged asa sympathetic figure.
He is now golf's version of the BuffaloBills, the team that lost four straight Super Bowls.
Not that heshould be considered a loser.
He won the 1996 British Open.
Butfour times in the last four years, he has been in the hunt goinginto the last round of the U.S. Open.In the last pairing with Payne Stewart Sunday, Lehman teed offfour shots behind.
But he soared to a 75, tying for fifth afterfinishing third, second and third the previous years.By then Lehman realized that another 68 (which he shot in thefirst and third rounds) would have edged Janzen's par 280 for thetrophy.Nobody in golf knew him then.
He was an assistant pro at WoodRanch near Los Angeles, after having earned a total of only $39,000in three years on the PGA Tour.
After qualifying for the Open, hearrived at Olympic with Melissa, now his wife, along with hisbrother Mike and his caddie, Buck Buchanan.He didn't make the cut.
The next year, the Lehmans took theirlast $8,000 out of the bank to go to South Africa, where hefinished third in that nation's Open, a $20,000 payday.
In 1990 hejoined the Hogan (now Nike) Tour, winning four times and emergingas its leading money winner to qualify for the PGA Tour.Since then the quiet, modest Lehman has earned more than $5million in prize money.
He also has endorsement contracts thatguarantee him at least $5 million a year for the next five years.But for many golfers, the Open circle can be the most difficultto close, because the Open is arguably the most difficult of thefour majors.
The rough is too thick, the greens too fast.Sam Snead never did win the Open, blowing to an 8 on the finalhole at the Spring Mill course of the Philadelphia Country Club in1939 when all he needed was a par 5.
Arnold Palmer streaked to afinal-round 65 to win at Cherry Hills in Denver in 1960, then lostthree 18-hole playoffs.
Tom Watson holed a memorable chip-in to winat Pebble Beach in 1982.Over the years, Bobby Jones, Ben Hogan and Jack Nicklaus sharethe Open record with four victories (along with Willie Andersonnearly a century ago).
Proof that Jones, Hogan and Nicklaus werethe best of their respective eras.But no other recent golfer has had the elusive opportunity towin the world's most prestigious championship more often than thisbig man from Minnesota who now lives in Scottsdale, Ariz., withMelissa and their three children.In the past three Opens, he had been paired with Jeff Maggertlast year at Congressional, with Steve Jones at Oakland Hills andwith Greg Norman at Shinnecock Hills.Some golfers would be tormented by being so close at the Openand yet so far.
Not Lehman.But now Tom Lehman, who will turn 40 next March, must wait fornext year's Open at Pinehurst, N.C., which he is already thinkingabout.SCHOLARSHIP SCAMS: You can now find advice on how to avoidcollege scholarship and financial aid scams at www.finaid.org, theWebsite set up by the National Association of Student Financial AidAdministrators.
According to the association, a growing number ofscam artists are preying on parents and students, using suchtactics as hefty application charges and demands for administrativefees before a mysterious academic prize can be claimed.RETIREMENT PLANS: Most Americans rely on employers rather thanthemselves or Social Security to finance retirement, a new surveyshows.
The study, conducted by the nonprofit Certified FinancialPlanner Board of Standards, suggests that 67 percent of Americansdepend heavily on employers to fund their golden years, comparedwith 10 percent who depend mostly on personal retirement plans and3 percent who rely on Social Security.
The survey, which also liststhe top reasons Americans don't achieve their retirement goals, isavailable at www.cfp-board.org.LONG POND, Pa. For almost a month now, Jeremy Mayfield hasbeen atop the NASCAR world, holding on to a small lead in theWinston Cup point standing by consistently finishing near thefront.Still, something was missing.
Mayfield was in first place, buthe had made it there without a trip to victory lane this season.
Infact, he had not won a race in four years, 125 starts, on NASCAR'stop circuit.But Sunday, in a messy, drawn-out, rain-delayed Pocono 500,Mayfield finally justified his reign by holding off Jeff Gordon'slate charge, claiming his first career victory.
Gordon was second,seconds behind, and Dale Jarrett finished third.It was an emotional scene on victory lane as Mayfield climbedfrom his Ford Taurus.
He hugged and kissed his wife, then gotmobbed by a jubilant group from his Mobil 1 team, which also gotits first victory.For race car drivers, there are few things in life sweeter thantheir first triumph.
And those emotions were not lost on Mayfield,who got a little choked up after the race.Mayfield, who led for 122 of the 200 laps around the 2.5-miletri-oval, took the lead for good on Lap 179, passing DarrellWaltrip with a brilliantly executed restart after the race's eighthyellow flag.
Moments later, Gordon passed Waltrip and began hisassault on Mayfield.Gordon, the pole-sitter, track record-holder and two-timedefending champion who was favored to win Sunday, drove hisChevrolet Monte Carlo to within a car-length of Mayfield with fourlaps to go.
All Gordon needed was for Mayfield to miss a shift,take a wrong line on the track, or lose concentration for a moment.But Mayfield maintained the composure he has become known for, andGordon's car lacked the horsepower to mount a serious charge.The race was slowed by nine cautions, and was delayed by almostan hour and a half because of showers.
Mayfield's average speed was117.801 miles an hour.Rusty Wallace's hard luck at Pocono continued as he wasblack-flagged for a false start, then blew an engine a few lapslater.
Wallace, who started second behind Gordon, illegally passedhim en route to the opening green flag.
Then, on Lap 14, Wallace'sengine failed after he pushed his car to the limit to make up lostground.
He finished 42nd, dropping from fifth to sixth place in theWinston Cup points race, 216 points behind Mayfield.It appeared that Gordon, who was forced into a concrete barrierby Wallace three weeks ago at Richmond, realized Wallace had spedahead of him and did not fully accelerate at the start.
If that wasthe case, consider the score settled.NEW YORK A year after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that publicschool teachers in New York City could hold remedial and othersupplementary classes inside religious schools, rather than inoversize vans off the school grounds, school and union officialssay there have been no complaints from those teachers.The only problem has involved classroom space: Because someparochial schools did not have room for the additional classes, athird have retained some of the vans, which are leased by the Boardof Education, and are expected to do so again next school year.
Theprice tag, estimated at $5.1 million in the school year ending thismonth, is being paid by the federal government.For most of the more than 150 religious schools in New York Citythat receive the teachers' services, the constitutional linesbetween church and state have blurred a bit this year, albeitsubtly.
On Friday, for example, Bernadine DeCarlo, a social workeremployed by the Board of Education, weaved through the hallways ofSt.
Luke's School in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, pastcrucifixes and statues of the Virgin Mary.Under federal law, public schools must provide special services like tutoring in English as a second language or specialcounseling to all students who qualify, whether in public,parochial or other private schools.
From 1965, when the Elementaryand Secondary Education Act was passed, until 1985, those serviceswere typically provided in parochial classrooms by public schoolteachers, who took their assignments voluntarily.But in 1985, the Supreme Court found that the coexistence andmonitoring of secular and religious activities within the religiousschool buildings had led to an unconstitutional entanglement ofchurch and state.
The court ruled that the teachers could not holdclasses inside religious schools.
In response, the idea of teachingin vans was conceived.During the 12 years between the decisions, New York City spent$100 million in federal education aid to lease the ubiquitous red,white and blue vans, each 40 by 8 feet, that were parked outsideCatholic, Jewish, Lutheran and other religious schools, theirgenerators always humming.At St. Luke's, a brown-brick building with 363 pupils inprekindergarten through eighth grade, the principal, Sister PatHowell, was able to partition an upstairs classroom with filecabinets to make room this year for the classes in English as asecond language and remedial reading.Nonetheless, until more space is renovated, Lee Fettnercontinues to teach as many as 10 remedial-math students at a timein a van that is little bigger than a motor home and sits outsidethe school's 139th Street exit.Like most Japanese, Iizuka doesn't buy stocks or mutual funds.Instead, she has socked away her savings of about $40,000 in twobank accounts that pay less than 1 percent interest annually almost the equivalent of sticking the money under the mattress.New foreign companies seem to join the fray daily, with thelatest link up being Travelers Group Inc.'s proposal to buy 25percent of brokerage firm Nikko Securities Co. Banks are scheduledto start selling funds by year-end, and Fidelity and others alreadysell their funds from rented spaces inside individual Tokyobranches of prominent banks.The pot of gold for Fidelity and the others is the more than $9trillion in personal assets owned by Japanese individuals, thelargest reservoir of wealth in the world.In the midst of a nine-year bear market, Japanese have placednearly 60 percent of that massive nest egg is in low-yieldingsavings and post office accounts, and invested less than 10 percentin stocks or mutual funds, known locally as investment trusts.
Now,as banks and a major brokerage have gone bankrupt, Japanese are soconcerned about protecting their money that they are buying homesafes at a record pace.The mutual fund companies hope to attract risk-averse Japaneseinvestors by exploiting fears of a collapsing retirement system.They are betting that by 1999 Japanese will gain direct control oftheir retirement funds through the adoption a tax-sheltered schemesimilar to the 401(k) plan that has spurred the meteoric rise ofpersonal investment in America by making it easy to buy mutualfunds.Japanese employees have traditionally accepted long workinghours because they believed the company would take care of them forlife.
Now a sluggish economy and miserable stock market are leadingto questions about the sustainability of such an arrangement.While the potential rewards for addressing such concerns arevast, the foreign mutual fund companies will have to flex all oftheir marketing muscles to convince Japanese consumers to makemutual funds a way of life.The Japanese reluctance to gamble money on stocks is intensifiedby a market that has lost an average of 6 percent annually since1989.
The Nikkei index of 225 stocks has plunged from a peak ofalmost 39,000 to less than 15,600.Japan has also yet to be exposed to the kind of hype that hasadded to the American vocabulary terms such as asset allocation,long-term investing and risk assesment.
Funds in Japan werepreviously available only through brokerages, which tried to boostcommissions by encouraging frequent buying and selling.Still, the foreign securities companies seem relatively crediblein a country that has been shaken by financial scandals and thecollapse of financial institutions.
Fidelity is promoting its fundsin a series of full-page newspaper ads that portray the company asa fresh place to start in a new investment era.Fidelity says the response has exceeded expectations.
Thecompany on April 1 began its direct marketing efforts with atoll-free phone number that more than 3,000 people used in thefirst week alone.Fidelity has purchased land in Tochigi Prefecture, a three hourtrain ride from Tokyo, for future expansion.
Merrill paid up to$300 million for 33 retail brokerage outlets formally owned by thedefunct Yamaichi Securities, and hired some 2,000 of the firm'semployees.Such a strategy may be appropriate, as the companies are layingthe foundation for takeoff when the Japanese markets revive.This article was made possible by a grant from the United StatesJapan Foundation of New York and the Asia Journalists Program atthe University of California at Berkeley's Graduate School ofJournalism.
Even as relatives of the two men winced at how public thecouple's private lives had become, they agreed with AdolphGalluccio, Michael's father, who said that the attention wasworthwhile if it helped other families to avoid alienation fromtheir gay children.Along the way to adopting their son, Adam, who is now 3 yearsold, they became accidental advocates with a monthly newslettersent to 500 subscribers, a World Wide Web page(www.gaynj.net/galluccio/) and an agent who has booked speakingengagements around the country.Neary three years ago, the two men became the foster parents ofAdam.
When they tried to adopt the boy formally, New Jersey childwelfare officials assented, as long as they did it separately intwo distinct and costly legal procedures.
Under New Jersey law,same-sex couples and unmarried heterosexual couples had no legalstanding that would allow them to adopt jointly.The couple challenged the law in court.
Last October, JudgeSybil Moses of Superior Court in Bergen County granted the jointadoption, saying it was in the best interest of the child.
Twomonths later, all legal barriers to joint adoption by unmarriedsame-sex and heterosexual couples were removed in a broader consentdecree.
New Jersey became the first state to establish a policytreating gay and unmarried couples the same way it treats marriedcouples regarding adoptions.Only two states New Hampshire and Florida specifically baradoptions by gay couples.
The recognition of Holden and Galluccioas a family was seen by many as a step toward greater recognitionof gay unions.After the consent decree in December, the calls began floodingin, Galluccio and Holden-Galluccio said in an interview beforeSunday's ceremony.
There were tearfully whispered encouragementsfrom frightened and closeted gay men and plaudits from gay highschool and college students who called the men heroes.
The couplesaid they started feeling responsible for people and stayed in thepublic eye.Holden-Galluccio said that the couple had been trying hard tohold on to the spiritual and personal significance of Sunday'sceremony amid the notoriety that had seized their lives.
But thepersonal and the spiritual kept intersecting with the public andthe political.
The two men draped yellow-flowered leis around theirnecks and those of the clergymen and women and family members.
Theleis were gifts from Joe Melillo and Pat Lagon, two gay men inHawaii who have sued for the right to a legally recognizedmarriage.NEW YORK Seeking to break the city school system's recentpattern of 11 leaders in 15 years, Schools Chancellor Rudy Crewwill soon ask the Board of Education to consider a two-yearextension to his contract, which is due to expire in July 1999.
